Kilde: YouTube-video om static ads på Meta (limt inn av Håvard 15. sep 2026). Transkripsjon, ordrett.

[00:00]
Static ads are the most undervalued, highest leverage creative type that exists within a Meta account, but most people get them completely wrong.

[00:07]
Firstly, statics have the lowest CPMs within creative types. They pretty much always beat videos unless there's a compliance issue. And the best thing about this is that it's the fastest way to test new angles, concepts, offers.

[00:18]
You can quickly whip up a new static, you can put it into the account, and you can start testing new concepts. Number two, with the introduction of Andromeda, where creative does the targeting, you want clarity over design. The design of a static ad really doesn't matter. In fact, some of the best static ads that I'm going to show you later in the video, you're going to look at them and go, "How are these converting?" But they've held a quart million dollars in ad spend. And it's because when it comes to statics, you want quick clarity as to what the message is, what the problem is that we're agitating on, and what the solution is. We don't need to go and fuss around with a really nice design.

[00:51]
And then lastly, there's three reasons why everyone fails with static ads.

[00:56]
Number one, they only run bottom of funnel creative because naturally static ads sit very low down in the stages of awareness. Why is this the case? Why when people think static ads do they think retargeting ad? It's because it's very difficult to communicate through all of the stages of awareness in just one 1080x 1080 static image ad. It's very tough. You don't have many words.

[01:19]
you don't have much real estate that you can work with. Whereas in a video, you have way more time. You have infinite more information that you can communicate to the consumer, therefore pulling them through the stages of awareness. So, it is actually very hard to push a static ad up the stages of awareness. And because people don't want to do hard things or because that is a skill that most people don't have, when they make static ads, they just hit a bottom of funnel. They just retarget.

[01:42]
Number two is most static ads in most accounts are the exact same thing and there's just a ton of different variation. And I was actually having this conversation with someone the other day where they were saying, "Hey, these two statics we put into the account that we gave to you guys to launch, these are two different concepts." Fundamentally, they are not. They are the exact same concept. They are just a variation. And this is where people can really mess up on static ads is that they think because they have a new design, it's a new concept and it's adding diversity. But the design has nothing to do with broadening out and reaching new audiences. What matters is that you're changing the angle, you're changing the offer, you're changing the persona that you're talking to, or you're changing the format, which is not possible here because we're staying within the

[02:29]
constraints of static images. So, you need to change one of these three things. And then the last one is going to be lastclick attribution. And as a byproduct, I'm going to add landing pages in here as well. So if you're running very top offunnel static ads, you will end up driving really cheap CPCs and a lot of traffic to the website that will then end up getting retargeted elsewhere in the account and that will take attribution. And so you'll end up with statics that are spending a lot.

[02:53]
The rorowaz might not necessarily be all the way at the profitable return that you want, but the halo effect that it's having on the account is enormous because these high up the funnel static ads normally are some kind of advertorial or native static or longer form creative that needs to drive to an educational lander where they are then pre-educated where a follow-up ad will often get the conversion. And so if you're not using landing pages in your top ofunnel creatives and you're completely reliant on lastclick attribution as your methodology for whether a static ad has worked or not, that is why static ads aren't working for you. Now I want to be very clear.

[03:32]
The reason why I'm making this YouTube video is because if you go into YouTube right now and you type how do I make a good static ad or lessons on how to create static ads that are top of funnel and that work on meta ads, they don't exist. All that you will find everywhere when it comes to static ad content is just different formats that you should try. Hey, here's how to make a good static ad on Facebook ads. Try the advertorial format. Try the before and after format. Try this format. That format. Formats fundamentally don't matter. It's the least important of the components as to what creates a good static ad. Purpose of this video is for us to break down to the fundamentals of what makes a good static ad, what makes a bad static ad, and what frameworks do you need to be thinking through when

[04:12]
you're creating them, that is content that's actually valuable, because rather than you just copy pasting a bunch of formats that I can give you in this video, which sure I can give you formats all day long, but just follow my Instagram and I post ad reacts on there every day. The idea here is that you can walk away and fundamentally understand how static ads work at their roots so that you can then go and create infinite static ads forever that are actually good and that actually scale. So with that being said, let's dive into the first section of this video, which is why static ads are one of the highest leverage creative types that you have.

[04:44]
Number one is the four times cheaper argument. So the argument here is that CPMs are much cheaper on serving static ads, but also creative production is much cheaper. So the reality is is that a good 60 to 90 second video ad in that time that it takes in the resourcing and the expenses to the business, you could probably make four static ads in the same amount of time. Now you could probably make three great static ads if you actually spend a little bit more time ensuring that these are good creative. Now, because of that, there's obviously always going to be a production advantage to statics. Now, this is amplified even further with AI, where AI can help build these statics for you, come up with the concept, and come up with the ideas. So, you can pump out statics if you want for like a

[05:25]
dollar a static or less. Now, the reason why most people don't look at this argument and they disregard it straight away is because of the limiting belief that, well, yeah, that's fine, but it's because static sit at the bottom of the funnel and videos sit at the top. And so, sure, we can pump out millions of statics, but if they're sitting at the bottom of funnel, it doesn't matter. And that's correct. If they're sitting at the bottom of funnel, it doesn't matter.

[05:44]
But they don't have to. You can make statics that sit higher up the stages of awareness. The second reason why statics are high leverage is because of expected gross profit per ad. Now, what this means is that you take the average ad spend of the ad and you look at the average return and that gives you an expected revenue return per ad unit. So, let's say that on average each ad returns us $1,000 in revenue. Then, what we need to do is minus the ad spend. So let's say these guys are at a 10x return. So we minus $100 in ad spend.

[06:15]
And then the final stage here is we want to minus the actual cost of production.

[06:19]
What did it cost to make this type of creative? Now with static ads, very cheap. Maybe it's only costing you $20 static ad to make. So then out the back of this, we will have $880 in expected gross profit post production cost. Now, where this becomes interesting is that let's say that you're also putting videos into the account. Videos are also generating you on average $1,000 in revenue per ad.

[06:44]
They're also at a 10x return, but a video cost you $200 to make. Now, because of that, the expected gross profit per ad after production cost is actually substantially lower down at $700. Now, this gets a lot more extreme when you start factoring in that the ROI probably isn't at a 10x and you might be running at like, let's say, a 2x. So, it's a $500 advertising cost. And all of a sudden, if we just rerun these gross profit numbers, in this case, you're at 480 GP. In this case, you're down at 300 GP. So this is about 50% less profit or like 30% less profit because statics and videos are returning the same amount assume this is all top of funnel but the cost of production is much lower. Number three is statics are a great testing ground for then moving concepts and ideas over into video format. So,

[07:38]
because videos cost so much comparative to producing a static, you can come in and test new angles, new concepts, new personas, new offers in a static ad, see if it performs well, and then if it does, you roll it into higher production shoots that cost more money. This is particularly helpful in offer testing because if your creative is going to sit relatively bottom or middle of funnel and you're not going to make a good high up the stages of awareness static ad, that's fine. You can do offer testing directly here. And so you can directly split test different offers on warm audiences, be able to figure out which converts better, and as a function of that, what the gross profit is off the back of it, and you can continue to nail down the offer. There are three fundamentals of a static ad and what the

[08:19]
creative needs to do. Number one, it needs to stop the scroll. Number two, it needs to communicate the message. And number three, it needs to drive action.

[08:26]
Now, the reality of all three of these is they end up leading to two real options. When we're thinking about stopping the scroll, there are two ways that you stop people's scroll. either number one the creative feels native within the platform so people don't realize it's an ad and everyone will consume their organic feed or number two it needs to come across super clickbaity or jump out in some way so it's not native at all and it instead becomes a patent interrupt for communicating the message this is where design elements actually become important because you need to communicate normally what the angle is what the offer is and who it is for within the constraints of not many words and not much direction that you can go on the static at. So this is where actually creativity needs to get leveraged the most within a static. But

[09:07]
you can also leverage the primary text if you're going to keep the creative relatively native and not have much information in it. Then lastly, you need to drive action. Drive action is also going to lend itself to one of these two things. If it's a super clickbay ad, if it's an avitorial, it's going to naturally drive action because you're going to be insinuating towards some kind of article, some kind of blog on the other side of the click that the user can find out about. If it's a native ad, they're going to be going through long- form copy, which is going to be driving them to action anyway as the copy's pulling them through the stages of awareness. When you're thinking about the hook of a static, another angle that you can come in with is familiarity. This leads into the native static, but you see this a lot in

[09:47]
a lot of formats that people choose. So, people will choose stuff like the notepad format or the text message format. These are all really using familiar formats that are organic and then translating them into ads so that it stops the scroll and it gives you an opportunity to communicate the message through this particular format. So this is where like format innovation as well as format diversity helps. The reason why I say innovation is that you can just go and copy formats all day long from all of your competitors and what people are doing in other industries, but it won't have a huge edge unless you're first to market. So if you can innovate in any way on a new format that actually works, you will have a temporary arbitrage opportunity. One thing that's really underrated when you think through statics too is the primary text and headline. In videos, it's way

[10:33]
less important because I would imagine intuitively the consumption rate on the headline and primary text. On a video ad where you're watching a video is much lower, but on a static it's much more likely that someone's going to go and look at the headline and look at the primary text. And so as a product of that, we want to make sure that these are actually being optimized properly on the static and are being treated with equal weighting to the actual image itself. And then obviously there's a lot of static image strategies like native statics or like advvertorials that aren't really going to give much away in the image and it's actually going to force people to read the primary text.

[11:06]
And this is where we sell within the creative. We want to be treating headlines and primary text similar to how you think about building a curiosity gap in a YouTube thumbnail and title. So the idea when you create a YouTube video is that you want the thumbnail to make you question what could be going on in the video and then the thumbnail or the pairing title creates more context. So an example of this would be that the title says something like miracle drug and then the thumbnail is a photo of someone holding a particular tablet or pouring powder into a drink and then it's blurred out and so it creates a curiosity gap. You see the miracle drug in the title. You see the thumbnail with something getting used and you go, "Okay, I want to learn more." And you click exact same thing that you want to

[11:52]
be doing across the primary text and the actual static image or the primary text in the headline. So, there's a lot of different pairing relationships here that you can start to leverage. But if we are looking at the static just like a YouTube thumbnail and there's some weird mystery powder and it's blurred out and they're mixing it and then the primary text or the headline says miracle drug saving lives immediately you're going what's going on? I either want to click and go to whatever article this ad is going to drive me to or I want to click learn more and start reading the primary text to learn more where most uh businesses die in every aspect. This isn't just static ads. This could be applied to literally everything which is that you have a spectrum or a continuum in which on one side it's the extreme

[12:34]
version of a variable and on the other side it's the other extreme version. In the case of what we're talking about right now with static ads, on the left would be maximum clarity and on the right would be a deliberate curiosity gap. And so the idea here is that a creative over here, like a native static or an avitorial or a listical or something like that, when you see this static ad, you have absolutely no idea what's going on. You don't know you're getting sold to. You don't even realize this is an ad. And because of that, it pulls you in to click or it pulls you in to read the primary text. On the other side of things over here, this is absolute maximum clarity. When you look at the ad for more than 3 to 4 seconds, you start to understand what you're

[13:12]
getting sold, what the angle is, who they're trying to talk to, and what the offer is. People die always in the middle. You can't kind of have a curiosity gap whilst also being clear.

[13:20]
You can't kind of be clear while also trying to build curiosity. You need to distinctly go in one direction or the other or you'll just end up with a bunch of slop creative in the middle that doesn't actually perform. The last important fundamental to understand within statics, and I call this out a lot within my actual static real reacts that I do, where I pull up a static and I start breaking down what's good and what's bad about it, is the natural visual hierarchy of a static ad, which is that when you see an image for the first time, your eyes will snap to one part of the image, they will then snap to the second spot, third spot, fourth spot, and there's a path in which someone will actually walk through and get an understanding or progress through that particular static ad. If you're not

[14:04]
thinking through the visual hierarchy, what often ends up happening is that the creative ends up being super bottom of funnel because let's say there's a massive headline on the ad that says protein powder and right away that's the first place that your eyes go and you go, I'm getting sold protein powder. But instead, you'd want that headline if that's where we're trying to draw attention to, if that's where we're snapping our eyes to, you would want that to be as high up on the stages of awareness as possible so that we can resonate with a larger pull. And so instead of it saying protein powder, you would change it to something like new technology. The idea there is that you're going to lean into the fact that you've innovated in some way in protein powder. Maybe it's protein water when that started getting famous. And so

[14:41]
that's pulling you in and then it's going to walk you through and you're going to see the image and it's not going to make sense cuz you're looking at a glass and the protein's clear as it's being mixed in. That doesn't intuitively make sense to you. So then you move your eyes to the next element and then as you start to move through the static you get pulled through the stages of awareness very quickly and then ideally click and consider a purchase. Now you control the visual hierarchy through three elements. Number one is sizing. Number two is contrast and number three is wide space. Sizing because your brain will automatically process and go towards the biggest thing the biggest element on the static.

[15:17]
contrast because your eye will always go to what'sever whatever is different on the static. So if there's a big contrast element that is where you'll go that is where you'll look. Whiteside space actually does the opposite of these two which is that it directs you away from the wide space and to the elements that matter. So you're actually redirecting to other portions of the stat. Now moving into how to actually concept out static ads. If you've watched our creative strategy video which I recommend going and watching we'll put it in the description below. We walk through this idea of concepts. Now, a concept is identifying and breaking out the persona, the angle, the offer, and then optionally the format as well that the creative is going to sit under. Now, you don't have to have format. You can.

[15:57]
We're going to remove it for the sake of this video because we're just talking about static ads. So, every time before you start building the static ad out, you want to be thinking about who is the exact persona that we're trying to resonate with. What is the angle that we're coming at? What is the offer? And then alternatively you can have format in here which is just what is the mechanism for delivery of the concept.

[16:16]
And so examples of different formats would be that you can have a listical styled advertorial that you're trying to drive to. You could just have an advertorial. You could have uh a native static, you could have a before and after. Right? This is where we start talking about all of these different format types which I don't think are honestly very valuable cuz you can get format types from any YouTube video. You don't need me to start rattling off a bunch of formats. The real key to understand here and and to communicate to your internal creative team is that when they go and create a bunch of static ads for you, maybe they go and pump out three new statics, these three statics are variations unless one of these core three pillars change.

[16:55]
[snorts] So unless we're offering something different, that could be a different product or it could be a representation of value of the one product that you sell, unless we're talking to a different angle. So rather than telling people to buy our product due to weight loss, we're telling them to buy it due to longevity. And then the persona, if we're talking to the same people, it is the same ad. Now, when we dive a little bit deeper into variations, question becomes, should you even be doing variations? Should every static always be a new concept? And if you are going to do variations, like what should that materally look like?

[17:25]
How big should the variation be? You should do variations. It's high leverage. you can get way more volume into the account by taking a concept that's working and spin up a bunch of new creative under it. However, the definition of a variation is a little bit more nuanced, which is that if you just do a background color change or if you're just doing a slightly different pose of a product or model, it's not worth it. And the reason being is that the percentage change in performance caused by such a small variable is so small that it's immeasurable. If we do a background color change, if we take an ad that had a red background and we put a blue background, question is what is the actual impact or delta on performance that we expect there. Now there might be some impact because there might be some psychological frame that

[18:05]
when they see a blue background on your particular brand and your particular product, there is an increased likelihood of conversion for some reason that no one understands for sure. What's that going to be? Maybe it's 1%. Maybe it's 2%. It's going to be almost impossible to statistically measure without enormous budgets in an ABsplit test environment. Now, the issue with enormous budgets in an AB split test environment is that it's a terrible use of spend to be able to figure out which color of background performs better. And so therefore, you shouldn't even do the test in the first place. It's not even worth it. You want to be taking swings that are number one measurable, number two you would want to put spend behind the test, and number three materially change your approach to creative moving forward and feed into a creative flywheel. Do you really want to be going

[18:46]
back to your creative team and be telling them, "Hey, you should be using blue backgrounds rather than red."

[18:51]
Probably not. You want to be actually giving feedback on what offers are working, what angles are working, what are the personas, and then of the variations, sure, you can start to read into the tea leaves and try to figure out why a particular variation outperformed another one as long as the variable change is big enough. Now, why this now becomes actually mandatory, and this used to be just optional advice, is because Andromeda will natively group similar ads anyway. And so, yes, go and change the background color of an image.

[19:16]
Sure. But Andromeda will look at them, go, "These are pretty much the exact same ad, and it will group them, count them as the same ad ID, and serve them to the same audience." And so, there is actually no uplift or delta in introducing very slight variance. Now, as a side note, the reason why Meta actually did this, at least from what's been communicated to us through reps, is because when AI images became massive and those first few models dropped, uh they ended up seeing ad volume on the platform skyrocket. And the issue with that is that when the Meta platform got flooded with a bunch of AI creative that's all just slight variations of each other, it ended up creating a performance increase cuz Meta will prioritize ad accounts with higher velocity. So, as a product of that, they needed to counter the AI wave and not

[20:02]
let people just introduce thousands of AI ads instantaneously into the account.

[20:06]
And so, the way that they did that is they said, "Okay, if an ad looks similar to another ad, we're going to group it. And that way, the people that are abusing AI and putting 3,000 new ads a day in, if they're all pretty similar, we're going to group them in and count them as the one app." So, this was actually a system to disadvantage people from just abusing AI variations. Before we move into the production line, how to actually produce these static ads, what to look for, how to actually put them together, I first need to always mention uh Eugene Schwarz's stage of I need to mention the stages of awareness. The reason why static ads often don't scale is because they sit very low in the stages of awareness. An example of this is a most aware static ad that won't perform well at all is just a product

[20:50]
shot. You serve a white background product shot onto Facebook ads. This is going to hit no one except people that are most aware of your brand. They've probably clicked on the website before.

[21:00]
They know you in some capacity. With product aare, this means that they know about your product specifically, but they haven't clicked. They haven't purchased. They're not all the way down the bottom of the funnel yet. Now, this once again is going to be 90% of static ads that are created by most people.

[21:15]
Then we move up to solutions aware. Most people never make static ads at this level, which is people that are aware of the general solution. They know that they have a problem, but they don't know about your product yet. So, this is effectively where we start getting cold audiences. Up here is problem aware. So, this is people that understand the problem, but they don't know a solution exists. This is going very cold. And then all the way up the top here, unaware is people that don't even know a problem exists. You can create static ads that sit at the unaware stage of awareness. issue is you need to heavily leverage primary text plus the landing page to get these to work well. You just can't communicate enough information within the constraints of a static ad to start people at the unaware stage of awareness, make them aware of a problem

[22:00]
they didn't know existed, then make them aware of a solution, then make them aware of your product, and then convince them to buy right now. Very difficult to do within a static ad that's consumed within 4 seconds. but can do it if we then use the static ad to redirect attention into the primary text or we use the static ad to redirect people onto the landing page where we can sell all day long. So how to actually make a static ad? Number one is you need a research then you need a concept out then you need to build then you need to create either variations or you need to vary one of the three elements within the concept framework to be able to create more. You need to get internal feedback and then you push live.

[22:40]
Question becomes where can you leverage AI here? The reality is you can leverage AI at every single step. But I wouldn't recommend automating everything. So you want to be selective in where the automation will take place and then where you believe you can create the most leverage with human input. So as an example, you could fully automate the build. You could fully automate the concepting and the research. You could fully automate its ability to go and make a bunch of variations. But you probably want to come in here and have some degree of human feedback before it goes live. As an alternative, you could actually have the feedback be fully automated by AI. So you're just pushing ads into an AI model and telling it to give you feedback, which I don't know, I don't think that's a great idea, but you could do it. But as a product of that,

[23:23]
you're going to end up with a lot of slop if everything else is AI. So you want to intervene somewhere in this process. Now, that might be the build process. And so the build process is actually human. And so there's this human intervention and touch that's making sure that the research and the concepting is actually good. The variations can be spun up by AI and then the feedback is in place. Another alternative and these are all alternatives that actual clients do within their creative pipelines is that the build is AI assisted. So it's not completely AI but we're speeding up the process here by using AI gen. This is AI assisted too. But then the actual concepting is human research is AI assisted. Now AI assisted in research is actually super helpful because you can scrape large databases and get better understanding of the consumer.

[24:09]
Concepting I believe this is actually one of the most important interventions by the human because everyone can go and concept out using a large language model every day of the week and everyone will get the exact same answers. Now there is novelty in obviously the uh context window that's provided to the large language models. You could extend the context window from running a research project and backing a bunch of files in.

[24:30]
that's going to give you a bit more of a unique answer at the concept level. But still, as long as everyone knows how to do this, the edge is gone and so the concepting is still the same. What AI doesn't do well is cross translate ideas that are a peripheral that come from different industries. And this is what creative people do really well, which is that a linear thinker will take ideas that are clearly in front of them and they will move forward. Whereas a creative thinker will take peripheral ideas and be able to connect dots. And so they'll take an idea from a completely different industry and they'll be able to translate it and find how they could work it into this particular product or this particular concept. And that is what allows differentiation and that is what allows arbitrage opportunity. If I was to say

[25:18]
what is the most important part of this end to end production process, it is by far this part right here. This is also the hardest and most annoying part and the reason why most people don't do it and they skip straight to concepting and why most people's concepts aren't very good because people think they understand the consumer. They think they understand the pain points, but they don't actually understand them because they don't do the proper re research.

[25:40]
When you then start building out long form landing pages or when you start building out long form primary text, you're talking to someone who you don't even understand. And when you're talking to someone that you don't understand, the copy isn't going to resonate and it's not going to perform well. The build means nothing without a good concept. The variations mean nothing without a good build. The feedback means nothing without everything above it. So in order of priority, it's left to right. The research, the concepting are by far the most important components of the entire static ad production. Then the build and this we could think about as like formats too, but the actual format in which we're communicating the concept messaging sits here. Then the variations is one of the least important parts. That's just to squeeze a little bit more spend through the concept and

[26:26]
then the feedback and pushing it live. A really good way to sum this up is if you're going to make a new static ad right after this, don't open up Canva.

[26:33]
You open up Canva and you start looking for templates. you're starting all the way down here. Completely irrelevant, right? You actually want to start in a word doc or in some kind of research buildout tool. That's where it actually starts. And this is where honestly 80% of the time should go. And then only once this is dialed in should you move into production. And production should be relatively quick. So you're concepting all these ideas out. You're thinking, well, how many do we need? How many static ads should we test? And the answer isn't to just test as much as possible because you need enough budget moving through these static ads to generate statistical relevancy to know what's actually going to work and what's not. And so instead you always want to back propagate ad volume in either two ways. You back propagate based on churn

[27:15]
percentage or you back propagate based on average revenue per ad. These are the two different forecasting models for creative volume. We use both of them.

[27:25]
Average revenue per ad is that you're looking at average spend per ad within the account. You're looking at the average ROI. You then understand the average revenue return. You want to understand the average ad duration. So, how long are these ads on? And then you can do a calculation that tells you, okay, if we need $1 million in revenue this month, we know how much average revenue each individual ad unit provides us. We know how long it runs. Therefore, we can back into ad volume requirements.

[27:51]
Churn percentage is looking at how quickly winning ads within the account are churning. And so let's say you have 10 winners in the account this month and then two churn out. So you have therefore a 20% churn rate. So we need to replace however many winners are in the account which right now it's 10. So we need to replace two winners a month.

[28:11]
What is our winning hit rate? Maybe our winning hit rate is 5%. Which is pretty normal across most large ad accounts.

[28:16]
Somewhere between 5 to 15%. 5% means that 20 ads are required to find a winner. So if we need to replace two churned ads per month, we need 40 ads per month going in the account assuming quality maintains consistent with historical quality within the account.

[28:32]
Here's a bunch of different formats that you can use and here's where they sit across the stages of awareness. Top of funnel, you got problem agitation statics, you've got native statics, you've got PR and abitorials, you've got founder statics as well, which is a photo of the founder doing something.

[28:46]
Once again, you're either sitting super curious or it's very clear what they're doing. And then off the back of that, you have a founder story in primary text. Middle of funnel, you have comparison ads, before and afters, listicicals. You have feature call outs.

[28:58]
This is where honestly most people just make all their statics, which is super middle to bottom of funnel. Bottom of funnel is an offer, call out, review, or a hero product. Now, the key here is that let's say you go and test all of these formats. Let's say you find one that works. Okay, native statics works really well or problem agitating works really well. What you want to do from there is not just create variations on that format. Instead, what you want to do is sub out the concept and change the persona or the offer or the angle, but retain the same format. And so, let's say problem agitation works on the greens powder that you sell. Well, you just sub that out and try the exact same format, with the same messaging, on the same persona, on the same angle, but with your protein powder. Or maybe we

[29:41]
sub out the persona. So here we were talking to women aged between 30 to 40.

[29:45]
Now we try to talk to men. Same format, same offer, same angle, different persona that we're talking to. That's how you start to provide scale within a format that works and you can really squeeze everything out of it. It's by rotating out an element in the concept rather than just trying to make slight iterations on the format. All right, so I've pulled up five real static ads that are currently running seem to be doing very well. I want to break down the elements as to why these are doing well and how you can translate this into your own brand. So number one, I almost guarantee this is an AI image and the reason being is it's too perfect. What's too perfect about it? Headline is GLP1s gave you your body back then it took your hair and if we look at the static we can obviously see an insulin

[30:26]
injection but in the background there is her losing her hair in the back end of the mirror. So, it's a perfect contextual image that takes into consideration the problem that we're agitating on. So, it's very clear who the persona is because a person is being shown. It is someone who looks like this. The angle is clearly if you're losing your hair from JP1s, which is a common problem. And then the offer, we actually don't know yet. And so, that's where a bit of a curiosity gap is opened. And that's why native statics like this work so well. So, what happens? We go straight to the copy. We want to find out more. We've got a curiosity gap. Okay, we have this problem. We look like this person, but how are we solving it? Your GLP1's messed up your hair. You just need to eat more protein is making it worse. The

[31:11]
one that's happening quietly right now while you wait patiently for shedding to stop. We open up the copy and all of a sudden we go into long form primary tax and it's moving us through all of the stages of awareness of why this is occurring, how it's occurred through a personal story all the way to the end on the fact that pumpkin seed oil actually fixes the problem. If we then click out into the landing page, we can see that we get an offer which is directly congruent with the actual ad that we were looking at. So less shedding in 26 days or less is the offer being made.

[31:42]
This ad would be crushing it. This is an example of a top offunnel ad that can scale and spend hundreds of thousands.

[31:48]
The next one, we've got a before and after. In the primary text, always look at how they're using the primary text in conjunction with the image. This is a perfect way to build number one, this contrast in the image. And then this validates what we're looking at. So, we think, okay, this is something to do with probably acne or shaving. And then read this if you're shaving your face daily. This is running through what seems to be a whitelisting page. So, it doesn't look like this is being ran by a brand. It looks like a native page. We start reading through. This was my fourth doctor in 18 months. We open it up. We're straight into long form copy and it's starting to walk through a story of this person, how they fixed it.

[32:23]
Goes into social proofing, goes into timelines, and then click out into the landing page. You can see this is also a custom lander for this particular angle.

[32:32]
The next one, super curiosity opening, click baity image, right? I'm looking at this and I'm like, I don't know what this is. read this if you're always bloated by 3 p.m. Okay, so that's a persona call out to a particular problem and then the image is opening a huge curiosity gap. We then start reading the primary text. I was diagnosed with IBS at 19. 14 years I managed a condition 15 years of this and then it goes into massive long form primary text. So, this is another native static and then goes into detoxing for worms, which then obviously closes the curiosity gap on what the static is. Moving into the next one, we have another before and after.

[33:10]
Looks like it's running through a company page, so it's not as native as the other ads. Get your thick hair back.

[33:16]
Limited stock left kind of immediately gives away that this is a creative. So, that's actually probably pushing it down the stages of awareness pretty quickly. But once again, long form copy on a native static. Moving into the last one.

[33:29]
This is where using some kind of different format is really good. They've gone in the direction of having a really large curiosity gap. So you get this and you're going, "What's going on? Read this before buying." And then it goes in and it's effectively a negative hook, but it's in the form of a static. So it's saying, "You shouldn't buy this product because it's great." And then listing all the reasons. And then we have basic copy here. So this isn't leveraging the primary text at all. This is realistically sitting probably far down the funnel. It's unlikely that this messaging and this copy is going to cut through on a cold audience. Um, the idea here would be that it would be relatively bottom of funnel, but it's obviously an interesting new format that you could test out. So, there are five core takeaways from this video. Number

[34:09]
one, statics are the cheapest, easiest way to test new angles, new offers, new personas within your ad account. So, I'd be leveraging them way more than most people are. Number two, the skill in a static ad is not the design. It is the clarity and the messaging and the copywriting. Number three is that you scale concepts of statics. You don't scale individual ads. Number four, you want to be prioritizing research over everything else and then moving into concepting then moving into production.

[34:40]
Number five, judging a static by lastclick attribution can be really dangerous. And the reason being is that if you make a super curiositydriven upper funnel creative, you often won't get the purchase immediately and the purchase will roll into another creative that follows up that's middle or bottom of funnel. And so because of that, particularly in static world, you're probably used to static ads having really high returns cuz all the statics you make in bottom of funnel. And so as a product of that, when you go and start making proper top of funnel statics and they don't get a 7x return on ad spend like your bottom of funnel statics, you suddenly think, "Oh, they're not working. They don't work for me. I can't get these to work. I don't have the skill requirement, but it's not actually true. They probably are working, but then they're just driving a bunch of

[35:19]
volume into the other ads, which is why you always need to uh measure success and scale against financial KPIs, not just in platform metrics. And now, before this video wraps, we will also cut into a bunch of static ad breakdowns that I have done personally that runs through all of these frameworks. the way that the eye moves across the creative, the stage of awareness that it sits in, how you can leverage particular formats.

[35:44]
So, I'd strongly recommend watching through the next 10 minutes where I actually break down some real statics for you. And if you made it this far on the video and you're an e-commerce brand doing at least $5 million a year, ideally 10 million plus, uh, click the link in the description, reach out to us to get a free audit from our team. If you're a performance marketer, please reach out to us if you have two plus years experience. We're always hiring for incredible performance marketers to join the team and work alongside us.

[36:08]
There's >> two statics here. First one, second one.

[36:10]
Both of these statics are really good, particularly for a brand that I've never seen before. They both popped up on my feed. First one, imagine these, but 20 plus g of protein and 6.4 g of sugar. And then it has a very recognizable, probably the most recognizable lolly product in Australia. Now, is this starting to tow the line on being legal?

[36:28]
I don't know. I personally would blur this a little bit heavier. I personally would take the name off completely and just show the style of packaging. But this ad popped up and immediately I was interested. Okay, it created a information gap where I genuinely clicked on the ad because I went, "Well, what is this? How are they putting 20 g of protein into a pack of lollies and then what did I end up on? A landing page selling me protein gummies." And then I started getting retargeted with follow-ups. Now, this is more of a bottom of funnel to middle ofunnel ad.

[36:54]
However, just because this is such a unique product, these are starting to enter the market. people haven't really been served many yet. These ads in themselves will perform. And this is the issue sometimes with a white space or a new market that starts to open up is people can get very quick wins with very mediocre ads because people are like, "Oh, people are doing protein gummies now. That's interesting. Okay, let me check it out." You don't really have to sell them because it already sits in a pre-existing desire that hasn't been met through saturation of brands actually providing product in that area. And so these would probably be working pretty well for them right now. I would just be skeptical as they begin to scale and as competitors start to come into the market, this is going to stop working for them and they will have to

[37:32]
differentiate in some way by making better ads. Let's break this ad down.

[37:36]
Number one, the shot is incredible. Okay, this works really well on a static. The spacing across the entire static is good. Whoever graphic designed this actually knows what they're doing. Now, let's look at the actual headline.

[37:45]
Guaranteed energy in just 5 minutes. This is all we have within this static to be able to sell the user. Question is, is this good enough? Can we get a cold user to actually purchase and buy from us by telling them these words, guaranteed energy in just 5 minutes? And the answer is probably not. It's probably not strong enough to convince a cold audience to actually buy. Now, that means that this could just sit at middle of funnel and bottom of funnel and just retarget people and get the click at the end of the day, but even then, I probably want something stronger in the middle or bottom. So, we should be thinking about how we can rework this headline to be able to better engage people. number one. And then number two is how can we actually go in the opposite direction, which is kind of the

[38:27]
direction that they're going in here, which is that it is so vague and it lacks specificity that it is actually building a curiosity gap. And so right here, when I see guaranteed energy in just 5 minutes, if I look a little bit closer, I can go, okay, it's gum. It must be some kind of caffeine gum. And I can probably infer. But there's a lot of people that are going to go, what is this? Like I I'm actually interested. It seems like there's a product that guarantees energy, but yeah, I have low energy. Okay, let me click. When you click, that's when this ad stops working because it just goes to a product page.

[38:57]
What you would want to do here is actually drive over to a listical that's highly educationalbased. You don't even want to sell them on the landing page that you drive them to. And that's the point in these very clickbaity, open-ended, curiosity gap styled ads.

[39:11]
Now, right now, this kind of sits in the middle. It's not super curiosity focused. It's not super click bay. It's not going to drive a ton of traffic at low CPCs, but then it's also not on the other end where it's going to sell people through the messages currently in the ad. So, it's kind of somewhere in this middle ground and that's where most people end up sitting with statics. They don't choose one direction or the other and so they end up in this haze and then the ad just kind of sits as a middle and bottom of funnel ad and continues to scoop up attribution and you never end up really turning it off. But it also doesn't really drive growth in the business. Let's break down this ad.

[39:40]
Number one, up the top here, they use a very specific percentage and they bold it. This is good because it calls out that there's some kind of clinical evidence here and that there's actually some kind of study that's been run even if there wasn't. Now, what's done bad?

[39:51]
Well, this spacing is terrible. It looks like someone has done this who doesn't actually know proper graphic design.

[39:56]
This isn't spaced well at all. This product is too far to the left. Makes it feel very clunky. Makes it feel like any authority that was built up the top here using specificity is now lost just through design. So, that's where design actually does matter because you can lose framing. you can lose authority through bad design, which is what's being done right here. Number two, we got the logo on the bottom right. I don't hate it. I would probably get rid of this and then just move this logo over here. We don't need the logo in the ad. The logo was in the page at the top of the ad. It's really not required. You don't have to feel ready. You just have to begin. I don't get it. It's not a slogan that makes sense to me on first impression. And so, this needs more

[40:30]
clarity. I would actually rather list some features here as to why I would use this, potentially include a review. I don't know. There is stuff that we can do with this space to be able to better sell. And then we obviously need to fix the formatting over here. This is a bad ad because the copy does not meet the stage of awareness that the static image is in. The static image is a product aare stage of awareness ad. Okay, people are only going to click on this. People are only going to resonate with this ad if they are already product aware. Then when we go and look at the copy to match it, the copy is a stage of awareness above here. It's up at solutions aware.

[41:04]
It's teaching us what creatine is actually about. Creatine helps you gain strength and build muscle and it increases endurance for peak performance. Yeah, I know that because I'm already product aware because this ad is assuming product aware, but this copy is assuming solutions aware. So, it's really important that when you're building out creative, the actual ad, the video, the static, whatever it is, matches the copy because that is where you end up with a creative like this that just doesn't work. This ad won't work because this static hair will only work or resonate with people that know VPA creatine. anyone else is going to see this and why would they buy it? Move on. But then the copy is trying to talk to people that are solutions aware that no this is an incredible static ad.

[41:44]
4.7,000 likes down here. It's by IM8.

[41:47]
And let's break down exactly why it's so good. Number one, it's a new format. They're actually using a tweet here and they're reposting it so it feels organic to the platform, but it's actually an ad. Now, further to this, they're reinforcing it by using not a partnership ad. So they're not collaborating with IMA and Dr. James, but it's just Dr. James. So, they're running it as effectively a whitelisting ad through this profile. So, you don't know that this is an ad. In fact, you would look at this for a very long time.

[42:14]
And it's only until you start getting through the copy that sits under the creative over here that you actually realize that you're getting sold something. So, what's so good about the static over here, other than it being a common format and that you not really knowing that it's an ad, so it feels organic? Well, symptoms of vitamin deficiencies. So right away we're problem agitating into okay here's some education around how vitamin deficiencies could be impacting you then this is an unbelievably wide set of symptoms. So if you have dry eyes, if you have poor vision, if you have low energy, if you have bad skin, if you have cracks on your mouth, if you have fatigue, if you have bleeding gums, if you have painful muscles, if you have excessive bruising, all of these things, very very wide total addressable market.

[42:55]
Well, then it's an issue with a vitamin deficiency and it tells you exactly what the vitamin deficiency is. So you get education around, okay, here's my problem, here's the solution. Then you start probably reading a copy and you go the best multivitamin equals IMA daily ultimate 10% off. Here's the thing. Then you get more educational pieces here about how the product actually works.

[43:16]
And obviously because this is an ad, a big call to action will appear at the bottom here that it will allow you to click straight off the site. So a problem agitates to a very wide target demographic. It then educates about exactly what the solution is in terms of vitamin to solve your particular problem. It does it in a format that's super organic. It then maintains that organic feeling by not having the brand and company name attached with the post.

[43:39]
And then this is obviously driving off to cold audiences, probably driving off to this guy's audience, which is even better because we're obviously piggybacking off his organic. This ad's probably crushing it. It's a static image with long form copy. The image builds curiosity on the copy that hooks you in. These typically work really well. Facebook feed 60-year-old plus.

[43:57]
It's on what seems to be just a regular page. So, this looks like an organic post by someone telling a story. And then we open this up and we start reading and guess what? This goes for a very long time. And it's because it's a story pulling people into how menopause has been destroying this person and her marriage, all of these problems that have been happening for uh all of the hormonal issues. Then someone told her about grounding therapy and she said, "Oh, I don't believe in that." It sounded absolutely insane. So then she went into it. There was a 90-day money back guarantee. So she was like, "Ah, whatever. I'll give it a try." She tried it and boom, her whole life changed and all of a sudden her marriage was coming back together. Told her husband about it. She had more energy. I wasn't

[44:36]
annoyed at everything in my world. Blah blah blah. Continues going on. Tells the story. On and on and on it goes. And then it's like, hey, here's where I actually got it from. So, starts by pulling in a very wide audience because even I read the top of this copy and I went, "Wait, what is this about? Are you seeing someone?" That's what my husband asked me on Tuesday. Dead serious. I was shocked and I just stared at him confused. And then you look at this and you go, "Ah, okay. The husband's caught her on the ring camera at the front of the house. Let's read on. This will be an interesting story." And then it obviously goes into the whole menopause.

[45:07]
And obviously, if you don't deal with menopause, if you're not a female, if you're a male, then you're probably going to skip past this. So, it immediately disqualifies anyone that isn't relevant to the copy and what they're actually about to sell you through. And then you continue going and it pre-qualifies and problem agitates on what people are probably dealing with.

[45:21]
And then it goes through the product.

[45:22]
This is a really well scripted long copy static image ad. And then it takes you to a page which is about getting this grounding bed. This is a terrible ad. And it's a terrible ad because if you look at the headline, which is immediately where your eyes go, it's we don't stop improving. Neither should you. Like no context given. It's kind of a curiosity hook at the start of the creative. So you then keep going in and you go, okay, 15 plus years perfecting the formula. Try the next generation today. What is the next generation? So they try to build curiosity through the headline. And then you go into the actual meat of the creative and there's this graph that makes no sense. I'm looking at this and I'm like, what is even going on? And then you start reading through the first AG1, improved

[45:59]
B vitamins, more adaptogens, upgraded research on full formula. What does this even mean to me? And then the next generation begins. So there's actually almost zero education done here because most people don't know what adaptogens are. Improved B vitamins means very little to anyone. This means nothing to anyone. And so this whole creative just falls apart because they're trying to pull people in with curiosity and then educate them about the new product launch. And they tell you nothing about the new product. And so they either need to choose one or the other. And this is where you either go really clickbaity and super curiositydriven, which is where you have like statics with long form copy. Where here you would maybe even blur the product. You would go super great out and you would just go, "We don't stop improving. Next gen just landed." And people are like, "Oh, let

[46:41]
me click and find out more." Or you go the full other direction and you educate hard on the entire static and you make sure that people know exactly what's new, what has changed. And so when they click, they're really warm and they're likely to convert. But if you sit in this middle gray area, that's when you end up with a creative that just doesn't scale. And I think this thing has like one like and it's been running for three nights.

[47:00]
>> Do you think when brands like AG1 make objectively bad ads are getting carried still by the logo? Like is that going to pump for them anyway just because of the brand or like is this also going to lose?

[47:10]
>> Yeah, I actually think this ad is a product of the fact that AG1 has to stay super compliant and so they have to sit in a middle gray area because they have a bunch of funding behind them. Uh if you had some like more aggressive performance marketer, they would have gone way more curiositydriven. And to be honest, I think AG1 should actually sit in the other direction where they just had this more as a branding and education piece. But for sure, the logo just props up the performance of the ad.

[47:32]
This is an avitorial static ad. These are really good. They perform incredibly well. They only perform well though if you go to an educationbased landing page or you use the primary text to educate heavily. So let's break it down. The best hair growth products of 2025 and the ones to avoid. Here's what the big brands are not telling you. And then we have a bunch of different products here.

[47:51]
So, we know or we at least assume, okay, this is some kind of blog. This is some kind of article that's going to educate us around what hair growth products we should actually be buying. Now, even better, it's running through a doctor's page. Okay, so there's a bit of authority here. As a dermatologist, I set out on a mission to find the most effective hair growth products. Not very long copy, so they're not selling us on anything here. Okay, so we want to find out more. So, what do we do? We go and we go and click learn more. Now from here we end up on a website called Dermatologist Reviews. Now this website is owned by the brand that's trying to sell you on something. This is a really good funnel. So hi, who is the person?

[48:25]
Why do they have authority? This is the blog posted. I set out on a mission. And here are just the products ranked. And then it goes into all of the reasons as to why. And it goes into selling that product. And then it does go into the other ones, but it goes into why I probably wouldn't choose these. They're not the best. Now, why is this a giveaway that this is actually a brand pushing? Because if we look at the rankings here, you can't click on any of these, right? But you can click on this one. And if you click on this one, goes to a custom landing page that then takes you through a quizunnel, you go through a quizunnel, and then you get pushed through to the conversion. So, this is a really good funnel that they're running here. I really like it. And almost to

[49:00]
make sure they're a little bit compliant, I imagine. As you scroll down, this takes you to the same funnel, but as we continue going down, look at all the green ticks here. So many green ticks, one red. Only available online.

[49:10]
And then him and hers. Oh, widely available online. Well, that's the best thing about it. All of these negatives, but you can still click here and it takes you to an Amazon affiliate link.

[49:19]
And so, they're like, h, if people are not clicking on us, then we may as well still redirect them somewhere. And then, obviously, you can see they put the effort into reviewing all of these and all the reasons as to why they wouldn't buy them. This is a super effective funnel. I imagine this is doing quite well for them. Shocking design at the bottom here, but it's an elite ad. Do you know why?

[49:35]
>> The association between the product and the end product.

[49:37]
>> I think there's a couple things. I think number one, where do your eyes go when you first see the ad? it's to the product in the background and you look at the product and you're like, "Oh, this thing kind of looks like nice." Like, "I kind of want to drink this thing." So then it almost pulls you in with a curiosity hook where then you need context and you start looking through the ad to find context and the big bold in the middle. There's two in one mocker, which probably reaffirms what you were thinking and protein. And then you go up and you look for more context and you go grass-fed Aussie way.

[50:04]
Okay, so it's definitely protein, 100% real coffee and chocolate. All right, reaffirms the flavor. Honestly, they probably could have done a little bit of a better job on these because I probably already had a lot of that context from the headline, but it's not bad. Then what you need is, okay, I don't probably trust it. I've never even heard of this brand. I've never had a protein shake that's looked like that. And so then down the bottom, what they do is they reaffirm with social proofing. And so they pull in a review. Stop buying fattening ice coffee. This is enough plus more. The coffee protein is 2020 blah blah blah. And so they reaffirm and then they actually have a product shot which I think actually probably pulls the quality of the ad down because you've got this super premium background image and then you've got this just big

[50:42]
tub of whey protein. I think it also probably does a good job at adding friction to the purchasing process so that when people get to the chat the website they're not suddenly shocked by the fact that it's a tub away.

[50:52]
>> What about like when you're calling out reviews? Would you argue that that is almost confusing? When you're doing a review you almost need the association with five stars. I feel like I didn't pick up on straight away that that was a review at all.

[51:02]
>> Stop buying fattening iced coffee. This is enough plus more. This coffee protein is 2020.

[51:07]
>> It's a good review, but it's confusing. >> I think this ad could be better with better call outs up here that add more context that we didn't get from the photo and the headline. And if the review were actually had credibility, so if it was someone famous, if they had someone famous calling this out with their face down in the bottom, this thing would probably win.

[51:25]
>> This is an elite ad by the Venroy paid media team. And the reason why it's good is that it feels like a native static ad. Now, native static ads are usually only used in CPG. Here's an example of a native static. So, just a regular image that kind of hooks you in. You're like, what's going on? And then you start reading the copy and it sells you on whatever the story line is that's associated to this particular static.

[51:46]
And this is kind of the impact that they're having here because when this ad first popped up onto my feed, I went, who is this person? Why am I getting a celebrity paparazzi photo on my feed?

[51:56]
like I've never engaged with anything like this before. And so I started looking at the faces, looking at the copy, trying to figure out what was going on. And then only then did I notice, oh, Venroy over the top. This is a Venroy ad and this is a new collection. And that's kind of the point of a native static is to stop the scroll, get you engaged, get you looking. Will this ad by itself sell me?

[52:17]
Probably not. I in fact can't even really see the products that well, but it's going to get me in a top of funnel.

[52:23]
And as long as I held on this ad for a little bit, Veno is probably going to retarget me with some video assets and that might actually get me over the line. So, the purpose of this static would be to sit way up in the stages of awareness to then try to pull people through. In terms of how effective it actually was, I don't know cuz this ad only has three likes. So, maybe it didn't work, but it's a really cool idea. This is an incredible static ad, but reason being is it calls out right at the top, a persona call out, GLP1.

[52:45]
So, if you're on GLP1's, you're going to resonate. Then it validates it up here with the actual insulin injection. Okay?

[52:52]
cuz anyone that's taking GLP-1s knows what this is. It's the most recognizable thing. Then without the side effects, wait a second. So I can take a GLP1 and I don't have the side effects. I have my gut feel normal. Energy stays, hair stays full, weight loss continues, skin stays firm. What's going on here?

[53:08]
There's some kind of alternative option.

[53:10]
I'm problem aware of everything that's going on. And now there's a solution being presented. Okay, what is the solution? That's what happens when you pair your GLP1 with clinical grade nutritional support. the complete GLP-1 companion. It's purposely kept broad here so that it opens a curiosity hook.

[53:27]
You want to know more. You want to know how do I fix all these problems from the GLP1? And so what does it generate? It generates a click. The user ends up clicking on the ad to find out more. And as long as this drives to a highly educational long- form landing page, it will convert well. Where this won't convert well, and where most people fall apart on a static image like this and they go, "Oh, statics don't work. They don't scale." is they'll drive this just straight to a product page. This ad will not work driving to a product page.

[53:53]
They're clearly trying to sell a supplement here, but they need to go through way more of an education process before they actually present it. People try to do way too much in the creative, whereas these guys do a very good job at building curiosity, presenting the solution, but not actually showing you the product
