# Gary Halbert Letters

Kilde: https://thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/

Antall hentede HTML-brev: 184

## A Starving Crowd AKA Audio Version Contains Bonus Material Available Here

Kilde: https://thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/oneadvantage.htm

From:
Los Angeles, California
Wednesday, 2:30 P.M.
October 1, 1986

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

You are about to read eight pages of information that can save you and/or your direct-marketing clients from financial disaster.

Please pay careful attention. What you are about to read is deceptively simple. In fact, I'm going to have to ask for a bit of patience from some of you. Especially those of you who are "old pros."

You see, the first pages of this letter are going to reveal some stuff that most of you already know.

Please bear with me.

Some of my readers don't know this stuff and besides, it never hurts any of us to take a little "refresher course" once in a while. And anyway, it's all a "setup" to pave the way for me to explain a financial "life or death" concept that will be revealed near the end of this letter.

Onward.

No more messing around. Let's dive right in.

Listen: As you may or may not know, every once in a while I give a class on copywriting and/or selling by mail. During these classes, one of the questions I like to ask my students is: "If you and I both owned a hamburger stand and we were in a contest to see who could sell the most hamburgers, what advantages would you most like to have on your side to help you win?"

The answers vary.

Some of the students say they would like to have the advantage of having superior meat from which to make their burgers.

Others say they want sesame seed buns.

Others mention location.

Someone usually wants to be able to offer the lowest prices.

And so on.

Whatever.

In any case, after my students are finished telling me what advantages they would most like to have, I usually say to them something like this: "O.K., I'll give you every single advantage you have asked for. I, myself, only want one advantage and, if you will give it to me, I will (when it comes to selling burgers) whip the pants off all of you!"

"What advantage do you want?" they ask.

"The only advantage I want," I reply...
 

"Is... A Starving Crowd!"


Think about it.

When it comes to direct marketing, the most profitable habit you can cultivate is the habit of constantly being on the lookout for groups of people (markets) who have demonstrated that they are starving (or, at least hungry) for some particular product or service.

How do you measure this hunger?

Well, for us direct marketers, thanks to the mailing list industry, it is rather easy.

Let's brainstorm a little. Let's suppose you and I are new to DM and we want to sell a book titled "How to Invest Money In the Stock Market" and we have created a direct mail promotion designed to sell this book. Who do we mail our promotion to?

Here are some possibilities:

Possibility #1: We could mail it to people whose names and addresses we get right out of a telephone book. Comments: This is a terrible idea. Except for offers (like my coat-of-arms promotion) that have an extremely broad appeal, there are far too many non-prospects in this "hodge podge" group of people. In fact, the only thing these people have in common is that they all have a phone.

Some of these people won't have any money to invest.

Some of them (more than you would ever guess) never purchase anything by mail for the simple reason that they don't know how to read!

Some of them can read but they can't read English.

Some of them are old enough to remember 1929 and would never think of putting their money into stocks.

Some of them are too stupid to invest in stocks.

Some are too smart. Some are too paranoid.

And so on.

In short, there is way too much waste circulation in a list made up of names taken from a telephone book.

Using a list like this is like shooting with a shotgun instead of a rifle.

Onward.

Possibility #2: We could mail our promotion to people whose names and addresses we get from a phone book, but only to those people who live in high income areas.

Comments: This is a little better, but not nearly good enough.

High income areas are, incidentally, easy to identify because several companies have compiled statistics on every zip code in the United States and they can tell you, with great accuracy, the average income per person in each zip code. They (these companies) can also, by the way, tell you the average education level, average age, how much is spent (per capita) on automobiles and a bunch of other stuff.

However, as I said, this still isn't nearly good enough.

For one thing, not everybody who lives in a high-income area has a high income.

Some of these people might be live-in maids or gardeners or some other type of domestic servant. (Come to think of it, with the prices they charge, California gardeners at least ought to be wealthy!)

Some of these people may have money but are not interested in investing.

Some of them may buy investment books from a bookstore but never by mail.

Some of them may have money they are inclined to invest but will only invest in areas other than the stock market where they already have expertise.

Whatever.

Once again we are shooting with a shotgun instead of a rifle.

Once again, too much dead wood.

Let's see if we can do a little better.

Possibility #3: We could mail our piece to a group of people of whom we are relatively sure that all of them have above average incomes. Like doctors. Lawyers. Architects. Top executives. CPA's. Owners of expensive homes. Owners of Rolls Royce automobiles. Subscribers to The Gary Halbert Letter. And so on.

Comments: Not bad. We are now getting into areas where we at least have an outside chance. Whether they are interested in the stock market or not, we can't know, but, in any case, if they are interested, they probably have the financial ability to do something about it. There's no doubt about it. This group of people is certainly more likely to respond to our pitch than the first two groups but, as you should soon see, we can do a hell of a lot better.

Possibility #4: We could mail our promotion to a list of upper income people who are proven mail order buyers.

Buyers of what, you ask?

Actually, for the purposes of selling by mail, it is generally true that mail order buyers of anything are better than almost any group of non-mail order buyers. And, in this case, we have added the extra qualification that they must be wealthy mail order buyers.

Comments: Now we are getting down to business.

This is the first group I have described that gives us a reasonable shot at success.

Not bad. Not bad at all. But now, let's stop messing around. Let's go for the kill.

Possibility #5: We could mail our promotion to a group of wealthy people who are not only mail order buyers but also, people who have ordered some other investment book by mail.

Comments: Bingo! Now we're cooking. These are upper income people who have purchased by mail a product similar to ours.

What could be better?

This is just about as "hot" of a list as we can get!

Or is it?

Actually, it is not.

Let's keep trying.

Possibility #6: We could mail our promotion to a list of wealthy people who have purchased (by mail) a product similar to ours... several times!

Comments: Yeah! These people are "naturals."

They're MO buyers.

They've purchased (by mail) a product similar to ours. And, they are repeat buyers of this type of product.

How sweet it is!

Can it get any sweeter?

Yes, dear reader, it can!

Read on.

Possibility #7: We would mail our promotion to a list of wealthy people who have purchased (by mail) a product similar to ours several times AND WHO HAVE PAID BIG MONEY FOR WHAT THEY BOUGHT!

Comments: Goody. These people are very close to the "creme de la creme" of lists we can mail to.

But wait!

Why do I say they are only "very close" to the best?

Good Lord, what more could we ask for? Hold on! We're not done yet.

Possibility #8: We could mail our promotion to a list of wealthy people who have purchased (by mail) a product similar to ours and, who have done so repeatedly and, who have paid big money for what they purchased and, who have VERY RECENTLY made such a purchase!

Comments: This is almost as good a list as we can get.

It is certainly the best list we are likely to be able to rent.

But not quite.

Just keep reading.

Possibility #9: We could mail our promotion to a list of people who have all the characteristics of possibility #8 AND WHO OUR FRIENDLY LIST BROKER TELLS US IS WORKING LIKE CRAZY FOR OTHER MAILERS WITH PROMOTIONS SIMILAR TO OURS.

Comments: For a variety of reasons, many lists that should work, don't. Who knows why? Actually when it comes to the bottom-line, it really doesn't matter "why". What does matter is simply that a given list is or is not responsive. And the best way to know what lists are "hot" is to have a good relationship with a good honest list broker. In fact, if you have a good relationship with a good broker, one of the things he will do for you (because it is to his financial advantage) is to keep an eye out for hot lists that are likely to work for your offers. And now with this last list, we have finally and truly identified the best list you can mail to.

Almost.

Yep.

We can still do better!

Possibility #10: There is, however, one group of people that will respond far better than any of the other nine I have described. What is it? I'm sure you already know.
 
Your Own Customer List!


Comments: All other things being equal, your own customers should respond stratostrophically (is that a word?) better than any other list you can get.

Of course, there is one caveat:
 
THEY MUST BE SATISFIED CUSTOMERS!

So there.

Let us press on.

What you have just read was designed to give you (and me) a "refresher course" on those factors that make some lists more responsive than others.

With those factors in mind, we can safely come to the conclusion that there are three main guidelines we can rely on when we are picking lists to test.

These three guidelines are recency, frequency, and unit-of-sale.

A brief explanation follows:

Recency: As we now know, the more recently a person has purchased (by mail) something similar to what we are selling, the more receptive he will be to our offer. Get 'em while they're hot!

In fact, always check to see if the list you are interested in has "hotline buyers" and see if you can rent those hotline names before anybody else.

Hotline buyers are the most recent buyers of all.

Sometimes they will be quarterly hotline buyers, sometimes 90-day hotline buyers or even 30-day hotline buyers.

These names are extremely good prospects!

Frequency: The more often a person buys a particular type of item, the higher his desire for that type of product or service.

It just makes sense. If you are selling a book on "How to Invest in the Stock Market" and you find a list of people (multi-buyers) who have purchased several other books on stock investing, then you know that the people on the list are uncommonly interested in that particular subject.

Unit-of-Sale: Once again, we have a guideline that just plain makes sense. After all, a person who recently paid $100.00 for a bottle of diet pills is probably a hotter prospect for diet type products than a person who has only paid $10.00 for a bottle of diet pills.

You know, people don't always put their money where their mouths are, but they do nearly always put their money where their real desires are.

Recency, frequency and unit-of-sale: All good guidelines for evaluating a mail order list. And, in my opinion, of the three guidelines, recency is, by far, the most important of all.

End of kindergarten.

Now let's get down to it.

All you have read so far is just preamble to what I really want to teach you in this month's letter which is the real way to test a mailing list and...
 
How To Make Sure You Get The Same Results When You Roll Out That You Got When You Tested!


Listen: I am about to describe a very common scenario.

It happens all the time.

It starts when someone discovers a likely new list to mail his DM package to and decides to give the new list a test. Let's say the list has 500,000 names. O.K., so anyway, our happy little DM guy gives his broker a call and says, "Hey, I just heard about a new list that looks great for my offer. I want you to order a random sample of 5,000 to be selected on a ninth name basis so I can test the list." No problem. The list broker contacts the list owner, gives him the order and, quick as a flash, our little DM hero has his 5,000 names to test and he does so using his trusty control package.

And guess what?

The results are spectacular!

Greed glands begin to secrete and a continuation mailing is scheduled.

Now look, our DM guy is no dummy. He knows better than to order all the rest of the 500,000 names without making another test. What he does instead is he orders 50,000 more of the names and he tells his broker to make sure these names are also a random ninth name sample.

He also tells his broker to make sure the list owner keeps a record of which names he is mailing so those 50,000 can be deleted if he decides later to mail the entire file.

So far, so good.

He gets his 50,000 names, puts his letters in the mail and sits back to wait for the results.

And those results, when they come in, are not bad. Not so good maybe as the spectacular results he got from the initial 5,000, but still, quite respectable. And so, he orders all the rest of the names (445,000 of them) and he spends something like $160,000.00 to mail his DM letters to them.

And wham!

It's like a sucker punch to the gut!

His results are terrible.

His business nose-dives right into the toilet.

He calls his list broker and he calls the list owner and screams bloody murder. "How could this happen?" he says. "You must have cheated me! You gave me one list when I tested and another when I rolled out!" "Not so," says the owner. "You must have changed something in your mailing. Or maybe the time-factor made the difference. After all, it was 60-days from your first test to your rollout and, as you know, time changes everything."

Whatever.

What's important is that our gutsy little DM guy followed what he thought was a good, well-thought out testing procedure and he got crucified!

What happened?

Did our guy really and truly get an honest-to-God ninth name random sample when he ordered those first 5,000 names?

You bet he did!

He got a random sample of... The Most Recent, High-Ticket, Multi-Buyers That List Owner Had To Offer!

And what about that 50,000 name continuation?

What did our guy get then?

Quite simple: he got the rest of the best of the names on that list. And what did he get when he rolled out the remaining 445,000 names? Well, it was the same list. Only those were the older (less recent) buyers, the ordinary buyers on the list, the people who only made one purchase instead of several, the people who bought the cheaper items the list owner had to offer.

It happens every day.

Day in and day out.

You see, many people in direct marketing make more money renting their list than they do selling their products and therefore they do everything they can to maximize rentals.

You know, in a way, these sleazebags are like drug dealers; they give you the pure stuff first in order to get you hooked and then, when you go back for more, you end up snorting talcum powder.

Forgive me.

That was a poor analogy. (It works for today though, doesn't it?) So anyway, the big question is, "What can we do to make sure this never happens again?

Is there any practical way we can protect ourselves?"

Yes there is.

Here's all you have to do:

Step 1: If you are testing a new package, go ahead and order a ninth name random sample of 5,000 names just like our DM hero did in the above illustration. Then, mail your mailing and keep track of the results.

Now, if your results are poor, forget the list.

Trust me, you have just mailed the best names that list owner has to offer.

However, if your results are good (or if you are using an already proven control package), you then go to step 2.

Step 2: You now mail a continuation of 50,000 more pieces but, this time you do not ask for a ninth name random sample. NO! This time you choose three or four or five or six states and you tell the list owner you want all of his customers in those states.

Incidentally, as you probably already know, there is usually a "state count" on the back of the list card so, what you do is, you look at those state counts and pick a few states that will yield a total number of names that is somewhere near the 50,000 you need for a sensible continuation.

What will happen when you order names this way?

Well, most likely, your broker (out of ignorance) and the list owner (out of greed) will warn you about getting skewed results because of a geographic bias. And, they are right. You will get a geographic bias. But, most likely it will be a "manageable" bias and it won't be:
 
Anything Like The Bias You Get From Dealing With A Dishonest List Owner!


Listen: I know that testing this way doesn't sound as mysterious and complicated as some folks (folks who don't have to meet a payroll) would like it to be. These people can talk merge-purge, regression analysis, demographic overlays, and all the rest of it for as long as they want but, I don't care: If you do it precisely like I just said, at least you or your client are less likely to get crucified when you first roll out to a new list.

Note: I said "less likely." I didn't say this procedure is bullet-proof.

You see, there are some other nifty little scumbag tricks you better watch out for and I'll tell you about those in a future issue. O.K., now that that's out of my system, before I sign off, I'm wondering, did any of you figure out why some names (as described in last month's letter) worked so much better than others? Don't feel bad if you didn't figure it out because I didn't either. I got the solution from my ex-wife Nancy. It happened one day when I was sitting with a mess of result figures from the individual surname mailings when Nancy said, "Look, dummy, it's easy to figure out. You're mailing a personalized promotion that has to do with the history of someone's name and the rarer their name, the higher the results will be.

In other words the Millers and the Jones won't work too well but the Mergatroids will respond like crazy."

She was right. But don't worry, I took the credit anyway.

Sincerely,
Gary C. Halbert In-Print Salesman

P.S. Next month I'm going to reveal 20 ways to make your promotions work better without changing a word of your sales copy!

P.P.S. Thanks for all the nice letters and phone calls I got on last month's issue. Your praise went right to my head and made me even more insufferably pompous, arrogant and conceited than ever! Seriously though, thanks for the nice feedback. I really appreciate it!


Copyright © 1986 All Rights Reserved.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

## Hands On Experience For A Basic Education In Advertising Principles! Audio Version Contains Bonus Material Available Here

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zfkj_hands_on_experience.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Every once in a while, someone comes to me and says something like this: "Gary, I've got to learn how to write copy. I've never done it before and I've got just 30-days to learn how to create a world class promotion. Can you help me? Can you make me into a world class copywriter in just 30-days? Can you, huh? Can you? Huh? Huh?"

Strangely enough, the answer is yes. Sort of. At least, I can give a "qualified yes" answer to such a question. Actually, I may not be able to make someone "world class" in just 30-days, but I can almost certainly make such a person better than anyone he or she is likely to be able to hire.

Providing, of course, that the person in question has at least a modicum of talent and, much more importantly, the ability to follow directions and an appetite for very hard work.

Here's how I'd do it: If you were my student, the first thing I'd ask you to do is give yourself a basic education in valid advertising principles. To begin with, I'd want you to read everything listed below:

"Scientific Advertising"




-by Claude Hopkins




"The Robert Collier Letter Book"




-by Robert Collier




"Tested Advertising Methods"


-by John Caples
"How To Write A Good Advertisement"


-by Vic Schwab




"The Gary Halbert Letter" (all back issues)




-by Gary Halbert


"The Boron Letters"


-by Gary Halbert




"The Lazy Man's Way to Riches"




-by Joe Karbo




"Break-Through Advertising"




-by Eugene M. Schwartz




"7-Steps To Freedom"




-by Ben Suarez

O.K., after you had read all of the above, I would further instruct you to read nothing else and not take notes. You know, getting a good education in any field is tricky and, in advertising, it borders impossible. You see, most books written abut advertising are not just bad; they are downright dangerous! Many years ago, Claude Hopkins (the greatest ad man who ever lived) was asked to critique and offer suggestions on how to improve some college textbooks on advertising. His suggestion?

"Burn Them!"

Truly. Claude further went on to say that the "educators" involved had no right to impose such erroneous BS on a group of naive students, that it would take years of front-line experience to "deprogram" the students and free them up from all that garbage.

So listen: Not only is it important what you do learn; it is equally important what you do not learn. So, step one is to read only the material I have listed.

Now, about this business of not taking notes: Don't worry. We're not finished with those books, newsletters, and Boron Letters after just one reading. No Sir. Not by a long shot. Those books and those letters should become your lifetime companions.

However, for now, I want you to just rip right through them, non-stop.

O.K., now that you've read all that material, what's next? This: I want you to get a copy of the following ads and direct mail letters:

"Do You Make These Mistakes In English?"

"What Everybody Should Know About This Stock And Bond Business"

"The Nancy L. Halbert Heraldry Letter"

"How To Burn Off Body Fat, Hour-By-Hour"

"At 60 Miles An Hour The Loudest Noise In This Rolls Royce Is The Ticking Of The Electric Clock"

"Why Men Crack"

"How To Collect From Social Security At Any Age"

"The Admiral Byrd Transpolar Expedition Letter"

"The Lazy Man's Way To Riches"

And, in general, anything you can get your hands on that was written by Gary Bencivenga, Dan Rosenthal, Joe E. Kennedy, Pat Garrard, Steve Brown, Drew Kaplan, Claude Hopkins, Joe Karbo, Ben Suarez, Joe Sugarman, Gene Schwartz and, of course, yours truly.

Onward. Now that you've obtained copies of these ads and letters, I want you to sit down and copy them out word-for-word in your own handwriting. Next, I want you to create a hand-drawn layout of each ad and direct mail package. Listen: The goal here is to get you to create a professional package (completely "comped up") that is all ready to go first to a typist and then to a typesetter.

Now, after you've done all this, I want you to actually take one of these packages to a typist and then to a typesetter and have the ad or direct mail package typeset. Then proof the ad and, after making any necessary corrections, have a velox (stat) made of it.

Alright. What you have just completed is all the necessary "end steps" of writing out the final draft of an ad, laying it out and getting it typeset and stated and totally (and perfectly) "camera-ready" so it can be given to a "no-brainer" publication printer.

Do this. Do it. Do it. Don't be simple-minded. Don't come to me and say, "O.K., Gary, I've got the idea. I know what you're getting at. It really wasn't necessary for me to do all that mechanical stuff as long as I understand what you're driving at, right Gary?"

Sorry Buckwheat; it doesn't work that way. If you really want to know it, you've really got to do it.

There are no shortcuts.

You know, I'm sick to death of people who can't be bothered with the little nitty-gritty details of "hands on" experience. Of people who believe that somehow they can know a thing without experiencing it. Listen: It is possible to be "conversant" with something and really not have any kind of "gut understanding" of it at all. I'm sorry, but no matter what your Mommy and Daddy told you, men can never really understand the pain of childbirth, priests cannot comprehend the joys of sex, "normies" can never understand alcoholics, and not one speck of true advertising wisdom has ever been written by a PhD.

By the way, did you ever see all those ads by copywriters in DM News and the Reporter of Direct Marketing? The ones where they mention all their awards?

Know this: Not one of the legends mentioned so far in this letter care one iota about awards. No, my friend, if you would ever hear Ben Suarez, Sugarman, or any of the rest of us talking about our achievements, we won't be talking about awards, we'll be talking about numbers!

Forgive me, I digress. Let us press on. So far, we've only done the "end steps" of creating an ad. In actuality, there's a hell of a lot more involved before we ever get to that point. It's time to go back to work. It's time to prepare your "tool kit." First, I now want you to go back and reread all those advertising books and back issues of my newsletters (including the Boron Letters and, this time, take notes. Write down every good idea, every important insight and every nugget of wisdom that is contained in all that material. What this means, my friend, is that by the time you are finished, you should have hundreds of notes.

Put these notes aside. Next, go back over all that material and write out every headline you find therein. Also, get a bunch of back issues of The National Enquirer and Cosmopolitan Magazine and copy all the headlines you will find that seem to be repeated over and over. Especially copy a lot of the "cover blurbs" from Cosmo; they are superb. Another good source of headlines is "2001 Headlines" which was compiled by Jay Abraham.

Let us review. Here's what you should have done so far:

1.	You should have read all the books and newsletters I have recommended.
2.	You should have copied out all the ads and direct mail letters I have listed.
3.	You should've had at least one of those promotions comped up and typeset.
4.	You should've reread all the books and newsletters and taken hundreds of notes.
5.	You should've read all those "headline sources" and copied down mucho headlines.

Enough review. Next, take all your notes and headlines and put each individual note and each individual headline on a white 3 x 5 index card. And finally, take all those cards and put them in shoe boxes and then go take some time off. At least time off from this stuff. Go play golf for a few days or go back to your normal work routine or take a short vacation or whatever.

All rested?

Guess what? We are now ready, after all this "prep", to begin writing that first ad or direct mail letter. And so, let us begin. The first thing I want you to do is read and reread every ad or direct mail package that has already been written about what you are trying to sell. Take notes. Secondly, read and take notes on every ad or direct mail piece you can find that has been written for a competing or similar product or service.

Next, carefully examine the product or service and find out everything you can about it. If it's a book, read it. If it's a product, examine it. If it's a service, use it and ask questions.

Take notes on all this.

Put those notes on 3 x 5 index cards (one note per card) and put all those notes in a shoe box.

Go do something else for a few days. And listen: If you have a good idea during that time, don't verbalize it, don't write it down, don't tell anybody and try not to think about it. The idea here is to let everything ferment and boil and bubble up inside of you.

Back to work. We are now about to write the first draft of our ad. Go isolate yourself in a library or an office somewhere. Take all your shoe boxes with you. First, take out the 3 x 5 cards on the product or service you're going to write about. Shuffle through those cards. Read them. Say, "hmn?" every once in a while.

Now start shuffling through all your other 3 x 5 cards. Think about how all those good ideas and insights could be applied to your current project. Look at all of those hundreds of proven headlines. Think about how all those headlines could be modified to work for your current project. Maybe you could change "Do You Make These Mistakes In English?" to "Do You Say Any Of These Dumb Things Every Time You Call Your Stockbroker?" or maybe "Tova Borgnine Swears Under Oath That Her New Perfume Does Not Contain An Illegal Sexual Stimulant" could be transmuted to:

"Local Jeweler Swears Under Oath
That None Of Those Diamonds He Sells So Cheaply
Have Been Stolen!"

Get the idea? Of course you do. Keep shuffling those cards. Keep reading them. Jot down ideas as they occur to you. Actually shuffle the index cards like they were playing cards. Write out a couple "dumb" headline ideas. Write out some headlines that make more sense. Write a few that start with "How To...." Some that start with "17 Ways To...." And some that begin with "An Amazing...." And some that say "A Little Secret That...."

And so on. Write. Write. Write. Write. Write. Write. Write.

And guess what? Out of all this, if you really have done everything I have suggested, exactly as I have instructed - out will pop a "central selling idea" so powerful, so fresh and so compelling that you will know it is exactly right for the ad or direct mail package you are struggling to create.

I promise. It happens every time.

And when it does, write it down. If you are writing a direct mail letter, work that central selling idea into your first sentence. If you are writing any ad, use that CSI in the headline.

Now listen up. This is important. What will happen at this point is that your "mental floodgates" will be wide open. Ideas will come gushing out like water from a broken fire hydrant. Capture those ideas. Forget form. Forget grammar.

Write. Write. Write. Write. As fast as you can. Hurry! Hurry! Hurry! Hurry!

Don't stop for anything. Go! Go! Go! Go! Go! Go!

Write. Write. Write. Write. Page after page. Tell everything. Every detail. Every nuance. Every benefit. Every product feature. Every advantage.

Get it all. Get it all. Get it all.

Write. Write. Write. Write.

Rave! Rave! Rave! Rave! Crow! Describe! Enthuse! Give details. Don't worry about getting it perfect. Don't worry about spelling. Don't worry about formulas. Just keep writing. Go fast. Get it all. Write! Write! Write! Write!

And when you are done, set all this work aside and go do something else for a day or so. Let it cool.

And when you are ready to go back to work, I want you to go back to your first draft and now rework it in the following sequence:

1.	Say something that gets attention.
2.	Tell them why they should be interested. (Expand on CSI)
3.	Tell them why they should believe what you are saying is true.
4.	Prove it is true.
5.	Itemize and describe all benefits.
6.	Tell them how to order.
7.	Tell them to order now.

O.K., after you have rearranged all your material so it conforms to the above sequence, you should now check your spelling, correct your grammar, edit and, in general, tighten up your copy.

Next, read your copy aloud. When you do this, you will discover all those little snags where your copy isn't smooth, where it doesn't flow well, where the transition from one sentence to another or from one paragraph to another or simply from one thought to another is less than seamless.

Now edit again. Make it tight. Use short sentences. Short paragraphs. Everyday English. Use some one word sentences. Use some one sentence paragraphs. Use subheads that make your copy look interesting and...

Easy To Read!

You could do more. A lot more. This is not, by a long shot, all you need to know to write "world class" copy. But, believe it or not, if you just do (I mean actually do it) everything I've described here, you'll be better than 99% of all those frauds who brag about their Golden Mailbox and Echo Awards.

And, isn't it wonderful how easy it is? Heck, I bet you thought it was going to be work.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
The Ravin' Maven
of Marketing

 

P.S.	

You want to know what a truly world-class, no-excuse, no-BS copywriter ought to be able to do? It's this: He ought to be able to write an ad that tells how good he is. Hell, if he can't sell himself, how can you expect him to sell your goods or services.

Pray check out the enclosure.
 

Some Entries Are Really Bad,

Including Some Winners;

Judges Are Hard To Find

By Joanne Lipman

Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal

Hollywood has its Oscars. Television has its Emmys. Broadway has its Tonys. And advertising has its Clios.

And its Andys, Addys, Effies and Obies. And 117 other assorted awards.

And those are just the big ones.

It seems that the ad business just can’t honor itself too much. At scores of black-tie galas around the country, participants in sequins and silk await breathlessly, white-knuckled, praying to be tapped for the best beauty-aids ad or the funniest packaged-goods radio commercial.

There are contests for TV ads and radio ads, for newspaper classifieds

	



and bill-boards.

there are so many awards-about 500 by one count-that Adweek, a trade publication, has started a monthly magazine called “Winners” just to talk about them. Competitions have multiplied so much that sometimes there aren’t enough judges to go around.

‘Never Too Bad to Win’

“If you want to win awards, there’s a show for you. You’re never too bad to win,” says Tom McElligott, the creative director of Minneapolis-based Fallon McElligott, one of the winningest ad agencies. (The press loves awards, too, but that’s another story.)

No ad is too small or obscure to be nominated for an award from within or without the industry. Consider:

-The Aqua awards for the best waterbed advertising.

-The Batchy awards for the finest state lottery campaign.

-The PAW (Pets Are Wonderful) awards for non-pet product ads that illustrate “responsible pet ownership.” (One recent reject: the light-bulb commercial in which the light blows out and a woman accidentally vacuums up her cat.)

























































Yea Verily!

You can read the Rest 
of this article in the 
3/26/87 edition of the 
Wall Street Journal.

 



Update:

This trick is so powerful I’m very jealous I didn’t think of it first.

In fact, it was one of our super sharp subscribers who had this brilliant idea and here it is.

My father’s recommendation to copy great sales letters by hand has proven to be a revolutionary breakthrough for many of today’s best copywriters and here is how to supercharge that exercise.

A while ago Kevin and I painstakingly broke down some of our father’s most profitable ads.

In those breakdowns we shared the behind the scenes background stories of how those promotions were created and the hidden psychology in every line.

Well one sharp cookie started listening to the breakdowns while copying the ads out by hand so he was not only picking up the patterns and rhythm of winning copy but he was now understanding exactly why the words were chose to craft these masterpieces as he was writing them out.

Of course you don’t have to hand copy ads to become a great copywriter but it speeds up the process for many.

Gary’s best protégées swear that the, handwriting out winning ads exercise, was the best drill they learned from Gary Halbert and if that’s not enough proof hand copying winning ads is worth a try, check out this story.

Parris Lampropoulos, a man many consider to be one of the best copywriters on Earth, has had several copy cubs but… one of them stood out head and shoulders above the rest yet Parris didn’t know why this particular student was so much better at writing copy than the rest of his cubs so one day Parris asked what he did that was different and guess what that student said?

He told Parris that he had been copying winning ads by hand.

Now I could give you tons of testimonials from copywriting superstars who swear the exercise helped them be better copywriters faster but, here is the way to look at it.

If this drill doesn’t work you will spend a couple hours getting intimate with great copy but if hand copying winning ads does help you become a better copywriter faster, how much is it worth to speed up your journey to becoming an A-list copywriter?

FREE GIFT

Just so you know Kevin and I are not all about Operation Money Suck (our dad’s Line) we want to give you a free gift for supporting The Gary Halbert Letter and it seems appropriate we give you a great ad written by Gary himself we have NOT broken down YET and here is what makes this promotion special.

It was one of the last big ads our father wrote. It sold skin cream and you won’t find it in most swipe files until now.

You can get your free download on the bottom of same page you can purchase the breakdowns which is HERE.

Thanks for reading this update.

Peace,

Bond Halbert

PS If you are interested in the breakdowns, let me suggest starting with The Coat of Arms Letter. It’s short yet our father said 18 months of hidden psychology and testing went into perfecting that letter and every word earned it’s place.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Do It By The Numbers! Audio Version Contains Bonus Material Available Here

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zjkj_by_the_numbers.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

"There I Was At 15,000
Feet, Both Engines On
Fire And My Parachute
In The Laundry. . . .

You ever feel like that? You've got a marketing emergency on your hands and you've got to solve it right now!

Listen: I get calls nearly every day from people who need instant marketing solutions. They're not copywriters and they have no advertising experience. They don't trust ad agencies (and rightly so) and they haven't the luxury of enough time to become grounded in marketing theory by reading Robert Collier, Claude Hopkins and so on. In fact, they have no desire to become marketing experts. No. It's just that every "expert" they've ever hired has disappointed them and, since I'm usually too booked up to do any new jobs on a "right now" basis, they want to know... "What should I do?"

"Do it by numbers," I tell them.

Here's what I mean. Look: If you have a good product or service, you probably already know exactly how to sell it when you are talking to someone during a "one-on-one" situation. Whether you are talking to someone in person or, perhaps, on the telephone, it probably doesn't matter; my bet is you know exactly what words to use and what buttons to push to most impress your prospective customer.

Am I right? Aha, I thought so.

However, here is a curious fact: most people who are very good in a personal selling situation "freeze up" when it comes to transferring their sales pitch to the printed word.

Or else they struggle to "get creative."

Forget that rubbish. Here's a better way. The first thing you do is you begin to record (with the other party's permission) all of your conversations whenever you are talking to one of your prospects on the phone. Keep doing this until you are able to forget you are doing it. Why? The reason is simple. You see, at first, when you are aware that what you are saying is being recorded, you will stifle yourself. You'll try to make sure what you are saying is grammatically correct. Or you'll try to be clever. Or more dramatic. Or less dramatic.

Or whatever.

But if you keep doing it long enough, you'll eventually forget about the damn tape recorder and you'll revert to being your own natural wonderful self and you'll deliver your usual compelling sales presentation.

And hopefully, after awhile, we'll have a recording of you talking to a prospect when you are at "concert pitch."

Goody. But what's next? This: What we do next is take that recording to a typist and have it transcribed. Then, after it has been transcribed, we take a copy of that typed transcription and number each one of the paragraphs. By the way, for our purposes, a paragraph is one or more sentences that express a single idea or aspect of a subject.

O.K., now let's say we have the first draft of our "sales-pitch-in-print" and it contains 47 paragraphs and you have duly numbered them 1 through 47.

Next, we carefully go over each one of these paragraphs and give each of them another number that is based on a scale of 1 to 10, 10 being the highest. What we are doing here is "ranking" each paragraph as to how much favorable influence that paragraph has on our prospect. For example, let's say we are pitching a 31 foot Bertram sportfishing boat (one of the best) and we know from previous experience that our customers are very interested in the fact that the boat has a wide beam and a hull configuration that makes it extremely seaworthy and very uninterested in the fact that it comes with matching curtains and towels.

So, let's say the paragraphs about the seaworthiness of the boat get a rank of 8 and the ones about matching curtains and towels get a ranking of 2.

Whatever. So, what we've got now is a "sales-pitch-in-print" that is 47 paragraphs long and wherein each paragraph has been rated for wonderfulness on a scale of 1 to 10.

Now, what I want you to do next is to cut out all those paragraphs with a pair of scissors and divide them into three groups. The first group will consist of those paragraphs that describe the benefits of owning a Bertram and the second group will consist of those paragraphs that tell "interesting facts" about the boat. The third group will be those paragraphs that don't say anything about the Bertram or else paragraphs that do not advance your sales presentation in any way whatsoever.

Now, throw the third group away and arrange the other two groups in rank from 10 on down. Next, throw out all paragraphs with a rating of 5 or less. Next, rewrite the remaining paragraphs. But BEWARE: don't change them much. Just more or less "clean them up." Take out the ers and ums, the redundant words and sentences and sort of tighten up your sentence structure and grammar.

Let us press on. What I'd like you to do now is try to forget you are trying to write an ad or a sales letter. Instead, what I want you to do is to concentrate on writing a memo.

A long memo.

Write it to someone you can easily visualize in your mind's eye, someone who is a good prospect for a good, relatively cheap sportfishing boat. Someone extremely good-looking and modest.

Someone like me, Sir Gary of Halbert, Ace of Space, Prince of Print, Count of Cable and all around Bon Vivant.

Your memo should read something like this:

 

Memo

Dear Gary,

     I hear you are looking for a good, seaworthy, sportfishing boat.

     Listen: I've got a good one for sale. It's really a humdinger. Here are seven interesting facts about this boat:

     1.      (Insert highest ranked interesting fact.)
     2.      (Insert second highest ranked fact.)
     3.      (Insert third highest ranked fact.)
     4.      (You've got the idea, right?)
     5.      (Ditto)
     6.      (Et Cetera)
     7.      (and so forth)

     Hey, Gary, what about those apples? Maybe now, you can see why this particular boat is such a honey. There are many benefits to owning a boat like this. Here are five of the main ones:

     1.      (Insert paragraph on highest ranked benefits of
             owning this boat.)
     2.      (Insert second highest ranked paragraph.)
     3.      (Ditto)
     4.      (Et Cetera)
     5.      (and so forth)

     Well anyway, Gary, those are just a few of the "highlights" about the wonderfulness of this boat but, actually, there are many more reasons it makes sense for you to own a vessel like this and I'd love to explain them to you in person.

     So here's the deal. I know you're busy, what with all your clients and writing your newsletter and scuba diving with Paulette and so forth, so I'm gonna give you a chance to digest this memo and then, in a few days, I'll give you a call and see if you are interested.

     In the meantime, if you want more info sooner, you can call me at (000) 000-0000.

     By the way, I love your newsletter and I really enjoy reading it every month in spite of your conceited, egomaniacal ramblings.

                                  Sincerely,
                                  Joe Subscriber
                                  An Astute Student

 

Now listen: I want to know something. It is this: Did you think that little "lesson" was a bit too simple? If so, you are doing yourself a great disservice. You see, if you can grasp the essence of what I've just imparted, you will have learned an enormously important marketing lesson.

Here is that lesson:

Forget Trying To
Be Creative!

Forget Trying To
Be Clever!

Stop Worrying About
Those Awards You'd
Like To Win!

Hark unto me: Your job is not to be creative, clever or win awards. No. Your job is to sell, damn it.

Selling is not yelling. Selling is not tricks. Selling is an impressive, forceful communication of facts and benefits. What I have just taught you is a far cry from being the end-all and be-all of how to create advertising. However, that simple little process of recording your person-to-person sales presentations and then, transferring them to paper as I have outlined works far better than trying to "dream up" some award winning vapidness.

Check this out: There's a guy named Bruce Horovitz who writes a column on marketing which appears in the Business Section of the Los Angeles Times every Tuesday. Recently, on June 9th, one of his articles was about a gentleman named Sean Kevin Fitzpatrick who is executive vice president and creative director of an ad firm named Cambell-Ewald Co. The article is about Fitzpatrick's "Heartbeat of America" commercial (which consists mostly of a catchy song) that he created for the Chevrolet division of General Motors.

The article tells how "successful" this campaign is and how Chevrolet's current series of car and truck ads have been nominated for 10 Clio awards.

It's a stupid commercial.

In fact, this campaign is so stupid it would appear to me that Fitzpatrick doesn't even know what advertising is. (Or at least what it's supposed to be!) Advertising is not to remind someone of your existence; it is not songwriting, dancing bears, and tricky words and catchy music.

No! Good advertising is simply....

Salesmanship Multiplied!

I don't know how much money has been wasted on this moronic campaign. However, I do know that, according to this same article that, during the first quarter of 1987, Chevrolet sales are down 12.1% compared to what they were last year!

Is it any wonder?

But you know what? People who can't produce results often get very creative when it comes to creating cop-outs. And, in the ad business, if you can't produce sales, what you do is you tell your client that you are building his "image." You can tell him how all this money he's spending will pay off sometime in "years-to-come."

Listen to this quote from another "advertising expert" in the same article: "But this campaign can't be measured in short-term results. It is an image building campaign. Image is the key issue of the car market.. blah, blah, blah."

What garbage. You know what Fitzpatrick should have done instead of writing a song? It's simple: he should have found out who the 10 best Chevy salesmen are in the entire U.S. Then, he should have met with these men and watched them sell cars and he should have recorded their sales presentations and taken notes.

And then, he should have created an intelligent campaign built around the best parts of those effective sales presentations!

Maybe this guy deserves to win a Grammy but he sure as hell shouldn't get any awards based on his ability to create advertising that sells cars!

Oh, well. I suppose if it wasn't for guys like him, there wouldn't be so much demand for guys like me.

Onward. Look, I'm coming to the close of this month's letter and, before I do, I want to tell you about a couple of things that are not directly related to marketing. I hope you'll bear with me. I'm going to tell you about one of these items because it is so potentially important and the other because it is so utterly delightful.

Item 1:	

Back in the 70's, someone told me about a doctor who became wealthy developing some industrial patents that were used in Europe. Apparently, he used his wealth to set up a clinic in Paris to treat patients and do research. However, when the Nazis invaded Paris, he found it necessary to flee to the U.S. When he got here he set up another clinic and began treating cancer patients and doing more research.

Anyway, I met this man sometime in 1971 or 1972 and I was very impressed with him. He showed me a book he had published with remarkable before and after pictures of patients he had cured of cancer. In fact, he autographed the book for me and he also showed me letters from some of the authorities in "establishment medicine" that said, in effect, that although his ideas may have some merit, any real cure for cancer will come from the establishment.

What this doctor told me is that most MD's and hospitals don't want to treat cancer patients the way he does because it is too expensive and time-consuming.

Now, let's flash forward to a few days ago. I'm sitting in my office when I get a call from one of my clients (an international publisher) who says: "Gary I'm thinking about doing a book on this doctor in Manhattan. He's 91 years old and he's been treating AIDS patients with a 100% success rate!"

"Listen," I said, "is this guy's name Revici?"

Well, guess what? It appears it's the same doctor I met!

Now, hold on. I can't vouch for the truth of what you have just read. And, it is very cruel to hold out false hope for people who are seriously ill. However, I've heard enough about this doctor from enough resources that, if you know someone with AIDS, you might suggest they check this guy out. He runs the Institute of Applied Biology in Manhattan and the number is (212)976-9669.

Once again, I'm not saying all this is true. I'm just saying it seems worthy of investigation.


Item 2:	I had dinner last Saturday with an old scuba buddy of mine and he introduced me to an incredible restaurant that specializes in Southern cooking. This restaurant is called "AUNT KIZZY'S BACK PORCH" and it is owned by a black couple named Adolf and Mary Dulan. Let me tell you, Adolf Dulan absolutely bends over backwards to see that his guests are happy. It is a real joy to see a man with this much grace and caring.

And the food? It is, quite simply, the best I've ever eaten in any restaurant anywhere in the world.

Period.

By the way, don't look for fancy decor. AUNT KIZZY'S is located at 4371 Glencoe Avenue which is in the Villa Marina shopping center

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"The very most
semi-handsome ad man
who ever lived."

 

P.S.	Someone once said that if all my newspaper ads were being run by one company (instead of separate clients) that that company would be the third largest newspaper advertiser in the U.S. I don't know if that statement was true back when it was uttered but I sure as hell have created a lot of newspaper ads that have produced phenomenal results!

Want to know some of my secrets? Tune in next month. I dare say Bruce Horovitz won't have revealed any of them by then.


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Gary Halbert Letter

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Boron/TChapter1.htm

The Boron Letters - Chapter 1

 
 
Tuesday, 5:41 p.m.
June 12, 1984
   

Dear Bond,   

  This letter is going to be the first in a long series of letters in which I will attempt to communicate to you a lot of the important things I have learned in the last 46 years.

  I am going to try to teach you what I have learned about selling by mail, getting and staying healthy, how to get along with people, and, in general, how to have a good life without getting yourself all screwed up. There will also be stuff about sex, drugs and rock and roll! I'm going to try to write to you every day of the week (except Sunday) and spend about one hour on each letter. That way, by the time I get out of here we should have covered a lot of ground.
 
  Also, I intend to reread these letters myself after I am finished and use them as source material for a book I have wanted to write for a long time. The book, unless I come up with a better title, will be called:
 
How To Be Your Own Messiah
 
  These letters will ramble around somewhat. I'm going to try to keep the flow going so I am not going to slow down to edit these letters and, therefore, don't expect them to be as precisely written as my ads and other writings.
 
  Anyway, let's get started. As you know, today is my birthday and, strange as it may seem, it hasn't been a bad one under the circumstances. For one thing I got your birthday letter and the cards your Mom sent me and, for another, today is the first day I was able to run "the hill" non-stop. Being able to do that really made me feel good. The hill is a real son of a gun. It is very steep and, by my calculations, it is about 8/10 of a mile. I went around the hill 5 times for a total of 4 miles and, as I said, on one of those circuits (the third one), I did it running (actually it was more of a slow jog) non-stop.
 
  You know what? When I came in here, just three weeks ago, it was hard for me just to walk once around that darn hill. And, before I am finished, I'll bet you I can run around that hill ten times (8 miles) without stopping.
 
  Well, anyway, this all leads me to the first and most important thing I want to write about which is improving and maintaining your health and physical fitness. I'll have a lot more to say about this subject later but today I just want to "warm up" a little bit and tell you a few good ideas that you can start using everyday.   The first thing I want to talk about is "road work". Road work is walking, jogging and running. And, in my opinion, you should do about one hour of road work everyday of the week except Sunday. I believe the best time to do your road work is right after you get out of bed.
 
  In fact, in my opinion, the best groove to get into is get out of bed, (early) wash your face, brush your teeth, use the bathroom, etc., and then, eat a piece of fruit (I think a banana is the best) and then hit the street!   That's it. Just get out that front door and start moving. Walk, run, jog. Keep moving for about 1/2 hour and then turn around and come back. You know, I really do believe this is the very best way in the world to start the day. It cleans you out, it settles you down and it gives you a nice glow that will stay with you throughout the day. It will also make you more clearheaded and improve the quality of your thinking. The benefits are enormous and, believe me, if you start doing this right away (like the day after you get this letter!) it won't be long at all till you become positively addicted to your early morning workout.
 
  By the way, this addiction is not just psychological. It is a real honest-to-God drug addiction. But don't let that scare you. This is what's known as a positive addiction. A positive addiction is simply being addicted to something (like exercise) that improves the quality of your life. A negative addiction, on the other hand, is being addicted to something (like cigarettes) that lowers the quality of your life.
 
  What happens when you do road work is that, after about forty minutes, your brain begins to secrete what some people refer to as "survival chemicals". The names of these chemicals, as far as I know, are beta endorphins and norephinphrine. Some people say these chemicals are 200 times stronger than morphine and, in my opinion, the feeling you get is sort of like a good drug high except that the "high" is not artificial and you become zestful rather than speedy and, unlike a drug high, this is a high that is good for you.
 
  If I seem to be going on and on about this it is because it is so important and it is something you can do right away!   And, actually, of everything I have learned about in my entire life, this stuff about doing road work the first thing in the morning is very close to being the most important thing of all.
 
  So I really hope you get started on this morning road work program as soon as you get this letter and I also hope it becomes a habit for all the rest of your life.
 
I Love You and Good Luck!
 
Dad
 
P.S. Please get me a copy of "The Joy of Running" by Theodore Kostrubala.
 
 
 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S. You want to do some of your friends a favor? Have them read my book "The Boron Letters"... even if... they are not interested in marketing. Why? Because this book also deals with life... and... they will be able to benefit from these experiences.

Peace.

Go To Chapter 2

 

Click Here To View Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want To Be On My Newsletter Announcement List

 

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Big Idea Audio Version Contains Bonus Material Available Here

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zhzz-07_big_idea.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek
 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Can you believe it?

Not only am I caught up, I am actually sitting here in Room 436 of the Doubletree Inn starting to write this... my JULY newsletter... two days before the end of June!

I was invited to come out here to Las Vegas by Joe Polish to participate in the brainstorming session of a very small group of people. They offered to pay my expenses and a few thousand fungolas for my participation. I said "yes" to the expenses and "no" to the few thousand bucks they offered as an honorarium. I said to Joe, "Look, tell everyone in the session I don't want to be paid in advance. Tell them they can pay me after the two-day session is over... and then... they can cut me a check for whatever they feel my attendance was worth. In other words, if they so choose, they could end up paying me nothing." The result?

I Got Paid Almost Five Times
As Much As They Originally Offered...
Plus... I Formed A Few Business Alliances
I Believe Will Be Enormously Profitable!

Why did this happen? Because I'm good. I'm damn good! When it comes to direct marketing, there's nobody else in the world as valuable as me sitting in a room with you. Remember in my last issue I told you I was flying up to New Jersey to work with Nate Aventino and the folks at Nutramerica? Well, when I started talking with them, they were hardly paying attention. But, before I was finished, they were literally tape recording every word I said (even while driving me to the airport) and actually raising their hands to ask my permission to go to the bathroom. A few days after I got back to Florida, Nate told me they were following... every single one... of my suggestions... plus... they fired six of their "dead-weight" employees!

It made me feel good.

Gosh, now doesn't that warm the cockles (what are "cockles"?) of your heart?

Anyway, last month I gave you a free copy of my $97.00 report called Gary Halbert's Report On How To Slow Down, Stop And Even Reverse The Aging Process And Regain And Increase All The Youthful Energy, Vitality And Sexual Passion You Once Enjoyed! Many of you, if you happen to be anywhere close to my age (or, even for those of you who are much younger) will find the info in that report absolutely priceless on a personal basis. All of you received a real-life example of how to produce a product at a ridiculously low price (except for your "sweat equity")... which can be sold for a tremendous markup (100 to 1 or more)... and... still deliver something of such immense worth... everybody wins! Of course, each of you have been given the rights to reproduce, sell or give away that report with no compensation to me whatsoever.

I used the issue before that one to go on what I consider a long-overdue rant. However, even during all that ranting, I still managed to impart invaluable advice to you designed to dramatically enhance your life. Namely: "Don't Forget Grout Sponge!"

The newsletter before that one taught you how to do what I call "The Suck" which is... how to... suck out every relevant particle of information on whatever you are trying to sell... and... how to... get that info down on paper.

The issue before that one taught you how to become a student (and collector) of headlines... and how and why... you should have those headlines written out (one to a card) on 3x5 index cards.

We're getting closer to the part where we sit down and start writing copy (the least important factor in creating a great direct response ad or sales letter)... but... we ain't ready to start writing copy just yet. Nope. What we are ready for now is, to start searching in the direction of...

The "BIG Idea!"

What exactly is the "BIG Idea"? Fear not, you greedy, little truth-seekers... because... I, Sir Gary of Halbert... am about to lay it upon you. I'm going to tell you a true story which will illuminate exactly what the BIG Idea" is... and why... in your marketing campaigns, it is so damn valuable. Also, imbedded in this true story are many other lessons... which... for those of you who still have a few working brain cells left... will teach you...

How To Think!

Let us begin. Once upon a time (when dinosaurs still roamed the earth) I used to work for Ernest Borgnine and his evil wife, Tova. They had a little cosmetic company called "TOVA-9" which was a breathtaking clever combination of the name "Tova" and the second syllable of Ernie's last name.

When they hired me (the best move they ever made) I took them from grossing about $20,000 per month and being in debt... to... grossing about $800,000 per month... and... I managed to do this in less than half-a-year. This was done mainly by writing an ad for their main product, a facial cream which hardened into a mask. It was made by extracting some sort of ingredient from cactus plants which grew in Mexico. (I think before Tova got the rights to it, it was being sold by some guy in Mexico under the name "Happy Face.")

The "BIG Idea" I came up with for selling that product in the United States was expressed in the headline I wrote which said:

     Now, at last, you can have it too!

The Amazing Facelift In A Jar
Used By Hollywood Stars Who
Don't Want Plastic Surgery!

But wait, there's more! For a long time, Tova had wanted to add a perfume to her line of products. She traveled the world endlessly paying guys wearing twitter pants to take a shot at creating a fragrance which would please her.

Nothing worked.

One fine day, I'm reading the latest edition of The National Enquirer when I come across an article on how you can save money on your favorite perfume by learning how to make that fragrance yourself. The article explained how all perfumes have, as their main ingredient, something called an "essential oil." It further explained how, if you know what that essential oil is, you can buy some of it for a pittance, mix it with a little water and alcohol... and PRESTO!... you have something smelling like Chanel #5 or Opium (or your particular favorite perfume) for a fraction of the cost of buying the real thing in a high-class boutique or department store. The article listed the name of the essential oils used to make the most popular and expensive perfumes.

That's kinda interesting, isn't it? In fact, I'd venture to say that article was built around a very fascinating "BIG Idea."

Sir Halbert logged this intriguing information into the dark recesses of his demented mind and he proceeds to continue to journey through his pathetic little life.

On yet another fine day, the Prince of Print finds himself walking aimlessly through the streets of Westwood Village which is located just west of Beverly Hills. He comes upon an outdoor kiosk on one of the sidewalks of which he happens to be strolling. This little kiosk is filled with hundreds of test-tube-like thingys which are filled with different kinds of liquids. The friendly girl working in the little kiosk explains to ol' Guru Gary each test-tube-like thingy contains a different kind of essential oil... and how... she sells those essential oils to women who like to concoct their own perfumes.

Hmn. Quite interesting.

The Prince queries the sales girl, "Is there any one or two kinds of essential oils which women seem to like better than the others?"

"Oh yes!" she responds. "This one. It's called 'China Musk' and women much prefer it over all the others."

"No kidding," the Prince continues. "Why doesn't someone pour China Musk into a bottle, mix it with a little water and alcohol and call it 'ABC Perfume'?"

"Gee, I dunno. That sounds like a good idea," the fair maiden replies. "I guess it's just nobody ever thought of it."

Hmn. Well, Numnuts Halbert was sure thinking of it, and he bought a test-tube-thingy of that stuff and took it to a high-end jeweler.

"I want you to make a real fancy bottle to hold this liquid," I told the jeweler. "Then, I want you to have the name 'Tova' etched into that bottle."

A few days later, I picked up the bottle (it looked great), poured some China Musk, water and alcohol into it, screwed the top back on... and VOILA!... I created TOVA PERFUME!

Hey, that was a neat, not-so-little "BIG Idea," wasn't it?

Another few days later, I haul my silly ass down to Melrose Avenue in L.A. where Tova and Ernie are engaged in a photo shoot. (It takes Tova 5-1/2 hours to get ready for a photo shoot. It takes Ernie  45-seconds.) During one of the breaks, Tova comes out, I tell her I have a little present for her and hand her the bottle.

"What's this?" she asks.

"Your new fragrance," replies Numnuts Halbert.

She looks very, VERY dubious... but... she opens the package... admires the bottle... twists the top off... and... ever-so-softly inhales the aroma.

"Oh... my... God!" she exclaims. "THIS IS IT! It's perfect! It's just what I've been looking for! How did you make it? How did you develop the formula?"

"Tova," I calmly reply, "you wouldn't believe how much work and experimentation I've put into this. I've hardly had a wink of sleep for nearly three months. This project has involved me in the most difficult research I've ever done in my entire life!"

Before we can talk more, she gets called back into the photo session.

I leave, but Tova and I get together a few days later. By that time, I have designed some truly elegant packaging for her new fragrance. She wants me to tell her the secret formula... but... I tell her I want to wait until we've had a "perfume launch" and find out if the public likes this fragrance as much as Tova and I do.

She reluctantly agrees and suggests we have the perfume launch at Candy Spelling's boutique. At that time, Candy was married to Aaron Spelling (the mega TV show producer) and she had a boutique in Beverly Hills which would hold maybe 150 people maximum. I told Tova, if she was going to let me advertise the perfume launch my way, she'd need a place much, much larger than Candy's boutique. When she asked, "How much larger?" I answered...

"Like The Century Plaza Hotel"

It took her a few minutes to recover from my answer but, you know what? She actually went out and rented the entire bottom-half of the Century Plaza Hotel. She really did. For real.

Then, I wrote an ad. We ran the ad in the Los Angeles Times... and... that ad... got more than 7,000 (seven thousand) people to come to the perfume launch! And... that perfume launch was held on a weekday afternoon! In fact, if it hadn't been for the Fire Marshal, there would have been more than those 7,000 people at the perfume launch. The Fire Marshal said he simply couldn't let any more people into the hotel due to fire regulations.

That launch caused such a sensation, it got mentioned in Time magazine. Plus... we got millions of dollars' worth of unsolicited purchase orders from Burdines, Filines of Boston, the May Company and various others including the Federated Chain. At that time, the Federated Chain was the biggest chain of department stores in the world.

Why was that perfume launch so successful? Because the ad I wrote to promote it was written around a really terrific "BIG Idea." If you've got even one drop of marketing blood in your veins, you'll comprehend this particular "BIG Idea" in a flash as soon as I tell you the headline of the ad. Personally, I think it's the best headline ever written... and... here it is... so... you can decide for yourself:

Wife Of Famous Movie Star Swears
Under Oath Her New Perfume Does Not
Contain An Illegal Sexual Stimulant!

The ad went on to explain how Tova was willing to give away thousands of samples of her new fragrance... just to prove it was safe to wear in public!

The entire town was buzzing! "What did she put into the perfume?" "Is it a legal sexual stimulant?"

But, Guru Gary wasn't finished yet. In the middle of the launch with thousands of people watching and the TV cameras rolling, I had a special gift delivered to Tova right there as she stood on stage. The gift was delivered to her in a velvet-lined box which was handcuffed to the wrists of two huge, muscular handsome men dressed in tuxedos I had hired.

Want to know what that special gift was? I thought so.

It was 13 real gem-quality sapphires. Why 13?

Each One Commemorated A
Sacred, Secret Ingredient Used
In The Making Of Tova Perfume!

Per my instructions, Tova raffled off those sapphires to the audience in full view of the TV cameras.

How's that for yet another "BIG Idea"?

Which brings us to the question, "Are good ideas really all that important?" Not only are they important... they are CRUCIAL! Know this:

Walking On The Beach And
Coming Up With One Good Idea
(If You Implement It) Is Worth
More Than A Lifetime Of Hard Work!

When you hire a world-class copywriter (with my 30-some-years in the business I only know of about nine of them) you are not hiring him for his writing ability. Sure, he's got to be a good writer... but... more than that (much more) he's got to be a great "idea" man. He has to come up with the idea which will make your marketing campaign a huge winner. The actual writing is secondary.

Look, many of my readers are quite slow (mentally speaking) thus, I'm going to try and explain it... so simply... even my densest reader can easily understand the concept.

How interested are you in knitting? Aha! Just as I thought. You're not much attracted to knitting at all (unless you're Rosie Greer), are you? So, what if I wrote a brilliant full-page ad about the hottest knitting machine ever manufactured? Would you read the ad and purchase the machine?

I think not.

Now, let's say you've been married about a year and your wife is nine months pregnant. Your mother has volunteered to take your wife to the hospital if she goes into labor while you're not home. You've given your mother a cell phone and you wear a beeper around the clock. The simple plan is for your mom to use the cell phone and page you the moment labor begins. You go about your work day knowing everything has been set into place.

One day you're in an important business meeting. Unbeknownst to you, your wife has gone into labor. Your mother is desperately trying to use her cell phone and page you... but... the god of cell phones and beepers (being the fickle prick he is) won't let your mother's call get through to your beeper. To make matters worse, she can't even find a coin pay phone anywhere in the hospital. In the meantime, your wife has had triplets!

The god of cell phones and beepers (again, being the fickle prick he is) does let your mother use the cell phone to get through to me (your close friend) and she tells me about the births. Naturally, I burst into your meeting room and tell you the news, "Buckwheat, your wife just had triplets!" Or I might say, "Hey, I just got a call from your mother and she says your wife has given birth to three girls!" Or I could say, "Look you guys, I'm sorry to interrupt your meeting... but... I just got a call from Buckwheat's mother and his wife has just delivered triplets!"

Is There Any Way In The World I Could
Use Words To Tell You Your Wife Has
Just Given Birth To Three Babies... That...
Would NOT Be Captivating To You?

Here's the point: It's not how you say it... it's WHAT you say!

Yes, yes, how you say it is important... but... WHAT you say is CRUCIAL! If I work ten days on an ad, it will likely take me only about half a day to actually write the ad. The other nine and a half days will be spent busting my brain figuring out exactly WHAT to say which will make the ad the most effective. Thus, an average copywriter will end up exclaiming how many people say they love the fragrance of Tova's new perfume... while the Master... Gary Halbert ends up (after much thinking) exclaiming how Tova Borgnine has been forced to swear under oath her new perfume does not contain an illegal sexual ingredient.

It's the difference between being world-class (like me)... or... somebody like Dan Kennedy.

How did those ideas work for Tova's perfume? Let's see, I created that campaign in 1982 or 1983 and...

Tova Is Still Selling
A Zillion Gallons
Of That Stuff On QVC!

There's a great story about what happened right after I created that campaign but, the telling of that story will have to wait for another issue.

Damnit, are you getting any of this? Am I getting through to you at all? Did any of you learn anything from reading this newsletter?

Shit. Forget it. Why am I even bothering to ask?

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"BIG Ideas Incorporated"
 
P.S.	My "No Agenda" seminar has now begun to take shape in my mind. The goal is to come up with at least one "BIG Idea"... for every participant. Thus... if you attend my "No Agenda" seminar... and... you implement one of the "BIG Ideas"...

You Can Make Monstrous
Amounts Of Fungolas!

Have you called Theresa at 305/534-7577 yet to let her know you want all the details so you can attend?
 


P.S.#2	Dan Kennedy pisses me off. He's become too successful, has too much money, doesn't work as much as he used to... and... the jerk even owns a bunch of race horses!

It's not right and it's not fair. I see it as my duty to drag his ass back down to where it belongs.

Like, where I am.

Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Let's Do The Twist!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zdld_do_the_twist.htm

Email Us
(323)851-8275


Audio Version Contains Exclusive
Bonus Material From None
Other Than Parris Lampropoulos.
Get The Direct Download Here(Halbertising.com)
or
Pick It Up On iTunes






From:

South of Jewfish Creek



Dear friend and subscriber,




      Let's do the twist!

      You know, I've been writing this newsletter since 1986 and I've written a number of issues on how to write copy. However, there's at least one important area I haven't covered... and... at least to my knowledge, it hasn't been covered in other newsletters or books on how to write copy. What I'm referring to are known in the profession as "bullets." Bullets are little one line statements of what you'll learn about in the book the copywriter is trying to get you to purchase or some other product he's writing about. Bullets are usually preceded by a dot or an asterisk (the bullet) and they look like this:


.
	
What question you must ask when you rent a car to get the lowest price humanly possible!


.
	
How your military record can get you extra Social Security money!


.
	
The single best way ever discovered to sell a house... and... sell it fast!


.
	
How you can legally tape any telephone call you get from a collection agency... and... how to use that tape to scare the hell out of them... and... even use it (legally) to make them pay you  a big settlement!
      And so on.


      Listen, many of the most successful ads running today are nearly all bullets. Often there's a headline and then maybe two or three (or even just one) paragraph to preface the bullets. Here's an example of such a one paragraph preface:


 "Are you troubled by prostate problems? If so, you may be interested  in a new book just released by XYZ Publishing. Here's a small sample   of what you will learn when you read this book:"



      Then, of course, there are bullets, bullets and more bullets followed by ordering instructions. Let me tell you something: Many times a person will read an ad or a direct mail letter containing dozens and dozens of bullets and... he'll order just because one of them appealed to him. A long time ago (I think it was clear back in the '70s) I was doing some work as an outside consultant for Entrepreneur Magazine and I was writing an ad for one of their reports or something and, out of a tremendous amount of bullets there was one hidden in the copy that caused calls to come in for months and maybe even a year later. Here is that bullet:
 

FAKE COCAINE: a legal substitute that fools almost everyone!
      All that bullet referred to was a small part of the literature in the report or whatever it was in and, I'm not exactly sure who was responding to that particular bullet who would be reading literature from a magazine like Entrepreneur. Come to think of it, maybe it was entrepreneurs... only just those who were doing (or wanting to do) something illegal.

      Had I to do it over, I probably wouldn't have included such a bullet because I sure don't think it attracted the target audience we were hoping to sell. But, this tawdry example does illustrate the pulling power of a single bullet even if it's buried in a large ad.

      I started this issue with the words "Let's do the twist!" What I meant by that is, when you
write bullets, you've got to take the facts about the product you're trying to sell and present them in a way that "teases" the reader into wanting the full scoop. Now listen, when I say "twist" I don't mean distort! Your bullets need to be 100% truthful but you need to twist the way you write them so the reader gets a teasing glimpse of a particular benefit for what you're selling which makes him hungry for the rest of the story.

      Writing bullets is a real art and I don't have a magic wand that will teach you how to do it. The only way you'll acquire this skill is through a lot of practice. However, what I can give you are examples of how it's done... and... give you those examples in such a way I bet it will be very illuminating for you. So then, here's Gary's attempt to give you a few "aha!" experiences on the art of writing bullets. The way I'm going to do this is to give you a number of real life examples taken from an ad for a book. First, I'll show you what it actually says in the book and then I'll show you the "teaser bullet" written to correspond to that section of the book.


What it says in the book:


"Buyers always ask how long a property has been on the market, and when they find out the home has been on the market a long time they smell blood. What's more, many buyers wonder what's wrong with the property since it hasn't sold yet. They have second thoughts about bidding on such a place, figuring if nobody else thinks the property is worth what the seller is asking, why should they? As a result, the seller can no longer get the kinds of offers he would have gotten in the past... if your home has been on the market for a long time, you may want to consider taking it off the market for a little while. When you put it back on, you can honestly answer it's been on the market a short time..."


The Bullet:
 How to sell your home faster by taking it off the market!
What it says in the book:


      "The real estate brokers who come to view your home are in essence competing against each other for the listing. And those brokers who have been around for a while have learned from experience that very few new sellers are prepared to hear the truth about what their homes are worth.

      "So rather than risk alienating you and losing the listing to a competitor, most brokers will tell you what they think you want to hear, rather than what your home is really worth.

      "After a broker has secured the listing, he'll work hard on it for months, gradually getting you to lower your price further and further until finally the home is sold."


The Bullet:
 A dirty little secret many real estate brokers hope you never find out!
What it says in the book:


      "If your interior designer has used your home to make a personal artistic statement, that's great while you're living there but don't expect it to translate well when you're trying to sell. Rather than overdecorating or overrenovating, try to create a neutral canvas onto which a potential buyer can project his tastes."


The Bullet:


Why adding improvements to your home can lower its value!
What it says in the book:


      "Make closets look larger by removing items that can be stored elsewhere. Arrange the remaining items in a neat, organized fashion. Brighten dark, dull closet mwalls with a coat of paint."


The Bullet:


Something crucial (and unusual) you must do to every closet in your house before you show it to a would-be buyer!
What it says in the book:


      "If you want to be extra aggressive, one thing you can do is to offer brokers a higher commission. Better yet, offer a cash bonus to the salesperson making the deal. (This tactic works best for lower-priced properties.)

      "You may find the idea of giving the broker extra money distasteful, even outrageous. But look at it this way: while the couple of extra thousand dollars you're parting with is a minute portion of the selling price, it's a huge portion of the salesperson's fee. Since it takes just as much work to sell an inexpensive property as it does an expensive one, why not give the salesperson a reason to work as hard to sell your property as he would one that was a higher price? Besides, if he's a good negotiator he'll be squeezing that extra couple of thousand out of the buyer (or more accurately, the buyer's bank!) anyway."


The Bullet:


The single best investment you can make when selling your home!
What it says in the book:


      "Another technique that is very effective in selling the hard-to-sell home is for you to provide financing for the buyer. If this sounds unconventional or makes you feel uncomfortable, remember that back in the late '70s and early '80s when interest rates were in the high teens, seller financing was more the rule than the exception. And if the banks continue their trend toward tight money, it may become the rule again, no matter what interest rates are. So if you're one of the sellers who doesn't need all the cash, you may use seller financing as a way to make the deal more attractive."

The Bullet:
How to make sure your buyer gets financing despite the credit crunch!
What it says in the book:


      "Nine out of ten homeowners today are operating under a terrible misconception that is costing them a great deal of time and money. I call this misconception the 'fallacy of time.'

      "The fallacy of time is the belief that in order to get top dollar for your home you must stay on the market a long time in order to hold out for the highest possible price.       "In fact, the reverse is true. The less time a home sits on the market, the higher the price it's likely to bring. Homes that sell for above-average prices almost always sell quickly. And homes that sit on the market for a long time almost always sell for much less than they would have had they sold quickly."


The Bullet:


What the "fallacy of time" is... and how falling for it can be hazardous to your health!
What it says in the book:


      "And if you live in a state where real estate brokers aren't allowed to draft sales contracts, make sure your attorney doesn't drag his feet with the sales contract. In virtually all home sales, the contract of sale is preprinted form that the attorney or his paralegal can fill out in a matter of minutes. Remember that you are paying your attorney a significant sum of money; it is not unreasonable for you to expect him to send the contract out that day. And make sure the contract is delivered by hand. I can't tell you how many times deals have been held up because the attorney put the contract in the mail."


The Bullet:

Why you should never mail a contract... and what you should do instead!
What it says in the book:


      "Odors. It is a scientific fact that the human nose becomes impervious to a smell after it has been exposed to it for just a few minutes. Just because you can't smell an odor doesn't mean that a buyer first entering the home won't smell it. Pay special attention to the litter box and any other possible sources of odors in the home. Keep fresh air circulating by opening the windows or running the air conditioner. And you may consider providing a pleasant scent with fresh flowers, potpourri, or scented candles. If you really want to pull out all the stops, you can try old tricks such as baking bread, boiling cinnamon, or putting a drop of vanilla on a lit lightbulb before buyers arrive."


The Bullet:


What you should do to the lightbulbs in your house that can dramatically help you sell it!

      Are you beginning to get the idea? I could go on and on with more examples but, really the best way for you to get the "knack" of writing bullets is to read bullet-laden ads and then, order the book or product the ad is selling and study it till you are proficient in spotting the "source" of the bullet. All the above bullets are taken from an ad I wrote for a book titled Sell Your House Fast. Here are the rest of the bullets of that ad:


Seven questions you should immediately ask a real estate broker before you even consider letting him list your house!


How to overcome the single most difficult aspect of selling your home!


How to get more than your asking price! (You'll be amazed when you learn this!)


What colors you must never paint your house if you want to sell it fast!


3 strategies for selling hard-to-sell properties!


The single best way ever discovered to sell a house... and... sell it fast!


How to make sure your lawyer doesn't kill the sale!


How to get a "selling edge" even 9 out of 10 real estate brokers don't know about!


Why you should never even think about having an open house!


5 deadly mistakes most homeowners make when selling their homes and how to avoid them!


Advice many attorneys give that is absolutely wrong!


Why you should almost never rent your home!
2 clauses you should almost never put in your contract of sale!


What you can do if your home is worth less than what you paid for it!
      May I suggest something? Why don't you order this book and see if you can find the text in the book from which I extracted these bullets. The book is dirt-cheap and this will be an excellent learning experience for you. Not only that, it's the best book I've ever found on the subject of selling a house.

      And listen: Another crucial part of an ad or a direct mail promo is the ordering instructions. They have to be crystal clear! So, to help you get an idea of how to do this aspect of your promotions, I'm reproducing below the ordering instructions I wrote for this book:


"Will this book help you? Will it help you sell your house fast (within 30-days) and, still get top dollar for it? Here's how you can find out without risking a single penny. Go ahead and order the book by mail. Keep it 30-days and read it and check it out. Then, if you are unhappy with it, send it back and the publisher will return your entire payment to you quietly and without question.

Not only that... you can even post-date your check or money order by 30-days. If you do this, the publisher promises and guarantees not to deposit it for at least that amount of time. Then, if you decide to return the book, the company will send back your uncashed check or money order with no questions asked. You can't lose.

To order, write your name and address and the words "Sell Your House Fast Book" on a piece of paper and send it with your payment of $10.00 plus $2.00 shipping and handling (total $12.00) to:

Pathfinder Marketing 5839 Ponce Ct. San Jose, CA  95120

Your book will be sent promptly by return mail. If you have any questions, you can call (415) 858-7583. Checks and money orders should be made payable to "Pathfinder Marketing" and it is not a good idea to mail cash.
Thank you."


      Well anyway, whether you order the book or not, I hope what you've just read has given you some insight into how to write bullets and ordering instructions. You know, copywriting, when done well, is extremely easy to read but brutally hard to write. Writing is, I believe, the hardest job in the world. Especially if you do it right. And copywriting is the most difficult form of writing. When you're writing a novel, a short story or a non-fiction book or article, you can get away with a little slop.

      Not so with copywriting. There... every word... has to count!

      But don't despair, you can learn to do it. And, when you do, you can work anywhere in the world and the payoff can be handsome indeed.

      I'd like to conclude this issue by telling you a curious story. Not long ago, an officer from the third largest bank in the U.S. spent two days in Key West with me trying to get me to create their advertising. He was flabbergasted when I refused. He said the bank had ad agencies standing in line to "pitch" the bank into being allowed to handle their account.

      He was a nice guy, very sharp, and, when he left he understood, I believe, why I couldn't work on such an account. You see, what the bank wanted was more of the "same ol', same ol'." They run full-page ads in places like the Wall Street Journal with a picture of a guy in a rowboat and eight words saying something like this:

NATIONS BANK: The Power To Make A Difference!

      I just checked with Nancy Jones and the cost of running just one full-page ad in the full circulation of the Wall Street Journal is $114,605.28.

      Can you imagine that? Paying that much money to print eight words having no selling power whatsoever? Think about it: That comes out to... $14,325.66 Per Word!

      It's curious to me. I bet Nations Bank has some of the sharpest executives in the world. I bet they watch every penny of their costs like hawks. I bet they measure everything from currency fluctuations to the square foot cost of each building they rent or buy. I bet when they make a loan, they learn everything about the buyer right down to the maiden name of his aunts. But, on perhaps their most important expenditure of all... their advertising... THEY OPERATE BLIND! I've never even seen them offer a booklet in their advertising so theycan at least "semi-measure" the pulling power of their ads.

      But then, sometimes, I think it's me that's stupid. Just think, if I handled accounts like this and charged the standard 15% like ad agencies do, I could make $17,190.79 just for writing a lousy eight words every time they run an ad in the Journal.

      Oh well, it's just not my bag. What I like to do is write ads that make huge profits for my clients. I don't always succeed but often, I put more work into writing one ad than a conventional ad agency does in doing 10-years of work for one of their institutional clients.

      Do you have a project for which you need advertising written? If so, I strongly urge you to learn to write the advertising yourself or else hire a real copywriting expert to do it for you.

      Someone like me.

	   Sincerely,	


		


	   Gary C. Halbert	


	
	

	P.S.	
	I mentioned I had recently solicited some "Feedback" letters from people who had recently re-subscribed to my newsletter. Well, even if you haven't recently re-subscribed, I'd appreciate a letter from you telling me what you'd like to read about in upcoming issues.


	 	 
Audio Version Contains Exclusive
Bonus Material From None
Other Than Parris Lampropoulos.
Get The Direct Download
Here (Halbertising.com)
or
Pick It Up On iTunes


Click Here
To View Our
Newsletter Archive
	
Click Here
If You Want To Be On My Newsletter Announcement List

Copyright © 1986 Gary C. Halbert. All Rights Reserved

## The Gary Halbert Letter

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zdkl_human_deadwood.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I've got a good set-up for writing now.

I've got a little two bedroom place down in the middle of the Florida Keys in the city of Marathon which is on a small island called Key Vaca.

I love it here. My neighbors in front are a Cuban fisherman and his family. On this same property, in a neat little box-like house, lives another Cuban named A. Lopez. Lopez loves to paint and he keeps everything around here fresh and white. He even paints the bases of the palm tress and surrounds them with a circle of painted white conch shells. The Cuban fisherman and I share an excellent private dock and right now I'm sitting at a table under the picnic shelter in the huge back yard. When I look up from my writing, I can see the Gulf of Mexico, the Cuban fisherman's crawfish boat, and Paulette, who is wearing a bikini and sunning herself on the flybridge of the trusty Original Sea Hunt dive boat.

Life is good, just now. My Cuban neighbors are friendly and it pleases me that, other than exchanging pleasantries ("Hola amigo. Chi chi grande, eh?"), we really can't talk to each other.

Come to think of it, I bet they like it, too.

My next door neighbor is a woman whose name I forget and who keeps a big mountain lion named Christa in a cage in her back yard. This lady goes around with big bruises and teeth marks on her arms where Christa has playfully "nipped" her once in a while.

As I look to my left toward the Faro Blanco Marina and lighthouse, I can see a dozen or so gray pelicans floating in the water hoping for a handout.

No wonder so many writers love the Keys. (By the way, no fewer than eight Pulitzer Prize winners have made their homes in Key West.)

You know, I always enjoy seeing the homes where successful writers have lived. It seems to me they often arrange the best living set-ups of all, perhaps because they can do their work virtually anywhere. I spent a week once in Ocho Rios, Jamaica in the home of the late Ian Fleming. The estate was called Goldeneye and it is where Fleming wrote all of his James Bond novels. The house is situated on a bluff looking north toward Cuba and, at the bottom of the bluff, is a great little area for snorkeling. I'm sure that's where Fleming must have honed his skills as observing and describing the tropical critters James Bond met in his underseas adventures.

Thousands of miles away, in another ocean, if you ever go to Catalina Island, you can stay (I don't recommend it) in a grungy hotel that was once the home of the late Zane Grey. And, even though the hotel is rather sorry, you can still see what a wonderful place it must have been to live in when it was a private residence and somebody owned it who cared.

And Hemingway's house at 907 Whitehead Street in Key West: A great place to live, a great place to write.

Ah, so what? How's any of this going to help you make a buck? That's always the bottom-line, isn't it?

Well, remember how, in my P.S. in last month's letter, I said "Don't miss this one because it's one of the most important I'll ever write"? I meant that. But you know what? Unless you are very, very sharp you may (at first blush) find this letter less useful than the others I write.

Because, unless you're smart enough to know you're not so smart, you're going to figure you don't need this basic, rather obvious, cheerleader-type message and you're going to exhort me to get on with revealing those specific, down-in-the-dirt tricks and techniques which is what you like so much about this letter.

You're going to have to wait till next month. Next month I'm going to reveal step-by-step exactly how to go about creating a wallet-fattening winner. I'm going to put it all together and reveal the entire process. I know that's what you want and that's what I'm going to give you.

In glorious living color with every explicit direction you could possibly want unless you are completely brain dead.

Next month.

But this month, by God, I'm going to give you what you need!

And, to set the stage, so to speak, let me tell you about two recent events, namely:

1.

2.

	Byron Booth has died.

I came close to grievous injury, or perhaps even losing my own life, a few days ago when I fell from a plane.

Let's talk about Byron first. Byron Booth was one of the master teachers at the marketing and entrepreneur bootcamps developed by the Jefferson Institute and he was 48-years old. He lived in Iowa and, to my knowledge, had no health-threatening vices whatsoever. Last week he had trouble getting to sleep one night and he lay awake till about 3:00 a.m. In the morning, his wife Sandy left him a note telling him she'd decided to let him sleep in since he'd had such a hard time nodding off.

And when she came back to the house in the early afternoon, he had passed away!

Just like that.

I'm going to miss that guy. He and I had very different styles but he had a sense of fun about him and I always got a lift whenever we'd meet in some distant city to teach at a bootcamp.

As far as falling from a plane is concerned, it happened to me at the Key West Airport. Paulette and I had chartered a sea plane and we flew to the Dry Tortugas and back because we wanted to do some "reconnaissance" because we're thinking about going there in the Sea Hunt.

It was a gorgeous flight. Very low over the water so we could see the reefs and the islands. But, after we returned and the plane had taxied to a stop, when the pilot said he would get our gear from the plane, I said "no" and insisted on doing it myself.

Those sea planes sit high off the ground. On top of the wheels are pontoons and, on top of the pontoons are struts. So, there I am clamoring down from the cockpit with our gear bags when I lose my balance and fall (very hard) to the blacktop. I smacked my head good and put a hurting on the area around my tailbone.

But I'm OK and I'm so, so happy to be alive.

And so maybe, if I've got a message I truly believe to be important to you, I'd better write it now because I guess you never know, do you? And, how is it that I know so much about what you need? It's very simple. As you know, I've been going all over the U.S. teaching people who want to learn something about how to make monster money in general, and how to create "killer" advertising in specific and... they all seem to have the same "blank spots".

Listen: If you want to be a true success (whatever that means to you), you've got to lead a high-wattage, energized life. You need high energy, enthusiasm, optimism, cheerfulness and... and... and...

You're Probably Being Sucked Dry
By Success-Killing Vampires
From Loser City!

And what is a success killing vampire?

Ah, Igor, I'm glad you asked. A success killing vampire is someone who, when he or she spots someone with a little enthusiasm, a mischievous gleam in their eyes... someone who is daring to make a move... someone with a scheme... a plan... a dream...

They Immediately Sidle Up
To That Person
And Attempt To Drain Him
Of Every Last Vestige Of Optimism!

"Well, Bob, let's not be too hasty. We don't want to end up looking foolish, you know."

"Gee, Rita, it sounds good on paper but, don't forget, this is not the place for a woman."

"Gosh, Randy, I don't think we'll ever get that one past the zoning board. Let's not even try."

"Hey guy, that sounds great. But, before we get too excited, let me play devil's advocate, OK?"

And so on. Listen, you ever hear this one? A guy finishes a round of golf and walks into the bar at the "19th hole." He starts drinking doubles, one right after the other. Finally, the bartender says, "Gee, you must of had a tough day on the course."

"You're not kidding," says the drinker. "You remember Fred, the guy I always play with?"

"Sure," says the bartender.

"Well," says the drinker, "he dropped dead of a heart attack right on the first tee."

"Oh God, that must have been terrible for you," says the bartender.

"You don't know the half it," says the drinker. "all the rest of the day it was...

"Hit The Ball, Drag Fred!"
"Hit The Ball, Drag Fred!"

And so it goes also with all those human ball and chains so many of us insist on dragging around with us all through our lives. You know, John ("Crabtrap") Carlton, who now works with me, says I have a...

Million Dollar Rolodex!

He's right. Not only does my Rolodex contain the names of the top experts in many, many fields, most of those people have been screened for cheerfulness. And, if they ain't fun (no matter how good they are at their specialty), they...

Get Edited Out Of My Life!

Listen up. Most people have an "extended family" of about 200 people. Go through your address book. Your rolodex. Your Christmas card list, etc. Divide all those names into three piles:

1.


2.


3.	The names of those people who always give you a "lift" whenever you see or speak with them.

The names of all people you are rather neutral about and/or with whom you have little interaction.

The names of all those "Freds" who drag you down every time you meet or talk to them.

Trust me, you've got to edit all those folks in category three out of your life if you ever want to be a success in the fullest sense of the word.

Ah, but there's a problem, isn't there? Some of those energy sucking vampires are family. Maybe one of them, if you are honest enough to admit it, is your spouse. I see it all the time. I'll be teaching at a supercharged bootcamp somewhere and some guy will be there sponging up all that info and starting to get excited but... his wife is with him. And she views her purpose in life as to keep him from getting crazy and going off half-cocked on some nutso scheme.

My ass. Her real purpose in life is to keep his life from getting so exciting he won't make time for a boring wretch like her.

And don't think it doesn't work the other way around, too. There are plenty of energetic, go-getter women who never get to fly because they are chained down to some no-cojones sissy who wants to keep that lady at home in the kitchen where "she belongs."

And, of course, not only are some of these human handicaps family, some of them are very important to your business, aren't they? Hey, maybe Ol' Mr. Bile is a zitzul-draining grouch but he still represents a big chunk of our business and we can't ignore that, can we?

Yes We Can!

Look, all of us, at some time or another, have had to eat a little ca-ca for money. Even me. If the wolf is at the door and I don't know where the rent is coming from, I suppose, if necessary, I'd munch a little doo-doo in order to make ends meet.

However, as long as I can make the rent, I won't gobble any grief from anybody for any reason.

Nor should you. It's not practical. It puts a "governor" on your cheerfulness and energy which is the raw material from which all satisfying wealth is created!

But hey, editing those drainers out of your life isn't the only alternative, right? Certainly not for a nice person like you. Someone who cares. Someone who understands. Someone who is kind and...

Someone Who Is Going To
Change All Those People!

Sure, your spouse may be a dead head now, but wait till you make him/her understand the potential of what you are doing. Things'll be different then, right?

Sure, maybe Mr. Bile has a tendency to suck all cheer from our souls but, if we treat him nicely and kindly enough, for a long enough time, he'll come around, he'll change, right?

Trust me, Buckwheat, you ain't gonna live that long.

Some time ago, I spent a week in Park City, Utah with an old friend and business partner, Dennis Haslinger. Dennis and I hadn't seen each other for a while and, when we weren't skiing or working, we sat around in front of a fireplace and had some of those philosophical "save-the-world" discussions. And here's what's funny: When we asked each other what the single biggest mistake we seemed to be making over and over was, we both had the same answer. And, what it was is, we had both worn ourselves thin trying to get other people (whom we could see had potential), to go for the gusto. Sadly, in most cases...

We Wanted More For Those People
Than They Wanted For Themselves!

Please, please, don't you keep making this same mistake.

So why am I ranting and raving about this? Why eight pages of exhorting you to consciously eliminate the human deadwood from your life? It's very simple. You see, next month I'm going to tell you exactly, in pinpoint specific detail, how you can systematically create a huge marketing winner and gather unto you as much money as your greedy little heart could ever desire. It's going to be one of those ("Aha, so that's how it's done") letters and -- unless you are beyond all hope -- you are going to take that info, run with it, make a lot of bucks and be very grateful to me and then, for some reason or another, you may decide to call my office and...

I Won't Want To Talk With You
Unless You Have Freed Yourself
From All The Human Mulch In Your Life!

And I don't care how much money you make.

You see, damn it, there are too few Byrons and too many Freds.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert




P.S.	

Now, here's something you can do that will make you feel good and maybe teach you a little something. You can call the Jefferson Institute (801-489-3691) and ask for Stacy and tell her you'll make a small contribution to the Byron Booth Scholarship fund started by Jay Abraham and Gary Halbert if she will, in return, send you a  cassette recording of Byron's last talk (last week) on "What I've Learned As An Entrepreneur."

Peace.


	

"That's all they pick on now," says 
Big Lucie's daughter. "Any kind of 
sporting people. Anybody with any 
sort of cheerful outlook."

 ---To Have And Have Not
        by Ernest Hemingway



Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Gary Halbert's Famous Personal Ad

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2009/Gary_Halbert_Personal_Ad/Gary_Halbert_Personal_Ad.html

The Gary Halbert Letter
7510 Sunset Blvd. #1020
LA, CA 90046

kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com



From:
2,351 Statute Miles North West of Jewfish Creek (+/- 23 feet)


Dear Friend and Subscriber,

     Today is the big guy's birthday (June 12th) and if we can, we usually try to do something for him and his fans. He payed a lot of attention to his Alexa rating so this is the time when we try to bump it up a little.

     We noticed his very famous personal ad was not posted on the web site. That's because the ad was so huge that it won't fit on anyone's screen including my 30 incher.

     I've had Toni re-type the ad into a PDF document so you can enlarge and reduce it as needed. You will need Adobe Acrobat Reader to open it. Acrobat may already be installed on your computer, but if it's not you can download it for free here http://get.adobe.com/reader/ .

Click this headline to download the Ad

Generous Creative Businessman Wants
to Find a Hot, Sexy Woman With
a Good Sense of Humor

 

Don't forget to click the "+" in the toolbar to magnify the AD to make it readable. Later we'll post it as a single collum newsletter, but you should see it as it was originally formatted.

 

Peace,

Kevin Halbert
The Prince's Prince of Print

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2009 Kevin C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Secrets of The Water Ad! Audio Version Contains Bonus Material Available Here

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/11-09-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

This entire newsletter is going to consist of an ad I wrote for a client some time ago. I think reading it will prove very instructive to you. After you read it, I would like you to email me and tell me what you think about the ad... and... how you think it performed. By the way, this ad appeared twice as a full-page advertisement in Investors' Business Daily.

 

 

WARNING: Do Not Read This

Unless You Are Already Rich!

If you would like to know how someone can start with a simple idea... and then... generate over $51,000,000 in sales in just one year... this is going to be the most interesting message you will ever read.

Here is why: There's a guy in California named Carl Palmer who, until recently, was very wealthy and very bored. He got rich (the first time) by starting a company in 1970 which he sold out to Coca-Cola just three years later in 1973. As part of the deal, he had to sign a "non-compete" agreement with a duration of five years. After that five years ended, he went back in business and built up another company which was soon acquired by the giant AMF Corporation. After that, Carl developed Shackley's reverse osmosis home water filtration system... and... in the first year... they did $51 million in sales with that product. And so on. You get the idea. What this guy does is, he comes up with enormously valuable inventions, starts a company to sell those inventions... and soon... he goes nuts with all the hassles of running a business... and so... he sells out (at a huge profit) to some giant corporation that has the resources and the clout to exploit the living daylights out of whatever it is he has invented. But now, he has outdone himself. Now, at the request of the Seychelle Technologies, Inc., he has invented something that is needed by every human being in the world... and...

This Invention Is Almost

Certain To Generate Billions In Sales!

Here's how he came up with his latest invention. He's got a horse ranch somewhere near Pomona, California and one day he was out riding one of his horses... and... he was bored to tears! You see, this guy has a mind that just won't quit. So, he gets to wondering: "What would be the world's best product to develop? Is there anything that every human being on earth must have?"Yes, there is. It's called water. It's tasteless, odorless, colorless and calorie-free... but... it is vital to all life on earth. It doesn't matter if you are a dog, a cat, a human being, an elephant or a mere microbe, water is essential. And there is no substitute. There are more than five billion people on this planet and every single one of those people needs about 2-1/2 quarts of water... every day... to keep healthy and stay alive.

No water, no life.

But, so what? There's more water on earth than there is earth, right? Yes, that's true. However, 97% of all that water is sea water. And sea water, of course, is just chock full of salt. Anyone who drinks only sea water will soon die of thirst and dehydration as that person's body tries desperately to flush out all that excess salt. Of course, we humans can use sea water... if... we remove the salt. But, that is very expensive! Sea water is not a good choice for agriculture or industry either. It kills most crops and literally (and very quickly) rusts out most machinery. In truth, only a mere 3% of the world's water is fresh, not salty. But, almost all of that fresh water is locked up in glaciers and ice caps or is deep underground. Which means...

Only A Measly 1% Of All The Water

On This Planet Is Easily Accessible To Mankind!

And, much of that water is so polluted it is killing thousands upon thousands of people every day... plus... it is making millions of us horribly sick. Do you own a house? If so, go down into your basement with a hacksaw and cut off about an inch of one of your water pipes. Then, get yourself a strong flashlight and take a careful look at the inside of that water pipe. Guess what? Chances are, what you are looking at is NOT going to be pretty. Rust... Sediment... Lead... Dirt... Little flecks of animate matter such as rodent feces... Chlorine... Mercury... and... all sorts of other junk that is really bad news when you put it into your body. Think about what this means: Even if the city where you live does a perfect job (it doesn't; it doesn't even come close) of purifying your water supply...

Your Water, After Traveling Through Several Miles Of Pipes, Is Still Likely To Have Lots Of Horrible Stuff In It

When It Comes Out Of Your Faucet!

But, very likely, your city simply can't do a perfect job of cleaning up your water supply. The problem is just too overwhelming. So, what they do is, they dump chlorine in the water! Which, in a way, is good... because... chlorine kills a lot of those nasty, disease-causing bugs in the water. But hey, you know why it is able to kill all those bugs? It's very simple...

It's Because Chlorine Is Poison!

That's why most U.S. citizens have fewer cavities in their teeth these days: It's because the chlorine in our drinking water kills those little organic microbes that eat away at the enamel on our teeth. However, using a poison like chlorine to kill the "bad guy" microbes is sort of like undergoing chemotherapy when you have cancer. In other words, not only do the cancer cells get zapped; many of your non-cancerous cells also get zapped... and often... your hair falls out, you get extremely tired and your zest for life is considerably diminished. Speaking of cancer, there are five different articles in certified publications from the EPA, Massachusetts General Hospital, University of Alabama, University of Georgia, and the University of Florida that all prove...

Drinking Chlorinated Water Increases Your Chances Of

Dying From Cancer By 44%!

Plus, it has all kinds of other bad (horribly bad) effects on your health. But wait! Don't go getting angry at your municipal water company. They are very likely doing the best job they can considering the huge problems they are trying to solve. Yes, it's true: Chlorine is bad for you. But, the "bad guys" that would otherwise still be alive in our water supply... if... it wasn't chlorinated... is truly the stuff of which nightmares are made.When you start talking about E-coli, omoebic cysts, cryptosporidium, giordia and so on, you are talking about "biological villains" that cause...

Health Problems You Don't Even Want To Know About!

Again, chlorine is like chemotherapy: It's the lesser of two evils. In truth, any way you look at it, it's still a terrible situation. So, what's the answer? Well, millions of Americans now have water filtration devices in their homes... and... that does solve part of the problem. However, when Carl Palmer was doing his research, he discovered 50% to 60% of all the water we drink in our lifetime...

Is Water We Drink Away From Home!

It's no wonder the bottled water industry is such a big business. How big is it? I'm glad you asked. Just in the United States alone, the annual sales volume of bottled water... is more... than... 4.2 billion dollars! But, there's a couple of problems with bottled water: (1) First, there are about 350 different brands and not all of them are selling good water. Some of it is as bad as plain old ordinary tap water. Some of it is worse. In fact, some of it is ordinary tap water. What a racket: Fill a plastic bottle with water from a faucet... and then... sell it at a 2,000% markup! (2) Secondly, whether it's good or bad, all bottled water is expensive. For example, in Miami Beach at a local convenience store, an 11-ounce bottle of Perrier sells for $1.40. If you bother to do the math, you'll discover this works out to $16.29 per gallon. Actually, because Miami Beach is a resort area and Perrier is one of the more costlier brands of bottled water, this per gallon price is higher than average. However, even in non-resort areas, the usual average price for bottled water is still very high, like maybe $7.00 or $8.00 per gallon. Plus, almost every American who buys bottled water buys a lot of it. I mean really a lot! Let's face it: You need water every day. And, if you exercise, you need even more than other people. That's why many health-conscious Americans...

Spend More Than $1,600 Per Year

Just On Bottled Water!

But now, let's talk about something truly exciting. Imagine you go to a store and you buy yourself a bottle of Avian, Perrier, Arrowhead or any other brand of bottled water. Then, you drink the water from that bottle... but... instead of throwing the bottle away and going to the store to get another one... you fill up that empty bottle with water from your faucet... or... from a lake... or... from a river... or... even from a public swimming pool! Next, you put the cap back on the bottle... and... because that cap has an incredibly effective filter on the bottom of it, the water that now comes out of the bottle will be equal to... or better (in taste and purity) than the water you originally purchased. Only... you didn't have to buy it again! Which means, instead of paying $7.00 or $8.00 per gallon for bottled water (that is NOT even guaranteed to be pure) you end up getting water that IS guaranteed pure for mere pennies per gallon. Plus, you don't have to run back to the store whenever you need more water. Plus, you can take your bottle with its new, space-age, magic filter bottle cap... anywhere you go... even Mexico... and you will always have an endless supply of the purest water you can drink. Sounds like a dream, doesn't it? Well, because of what Carl Palmer has developed for Seychelle Technologies, it is now a dream come true. You see, Carl is the inventor of the reverse osmosis water filtration system which is what he sold to Coca-Cola, AMF and Shakley. But, that's what Carl invented 27 years ago. It's still a very effective water filtration system and it's still in widespread use. However, the water filtration system Carl has now invented exclusively for Seychelle Technologies... is... leap years ahead... of any other system on the market... including... the one he personally invented 27 years ago. One of the reasons Carl was able to create this amazing new filter is, he owns the world distribution rights to something called "sorbent media"... which... it turns out... is very likely to be the best water filtration material on this planet. One of the reasons is, it has a "pore size" of only two microns (many water filters have a pore size of 50 to 100 microns) which means that a much higher percentage of the toxic "bad guys" can't get through the filter. Plus, this material is so thin, if you would unravel the amount of it compressed into this tiny, new, super-effective filter...

It Would Cover A Surface Area

Of 15,000 Square Feet!

This filter also has ionic properties... which means... it has the ability to chemically bond to volatile organic compounds often found in polluted water. In other words, it just reaches out and grabs them (they're another breed of disgusting "toxic villains") and holds them to the surface of the filter. The bottom-line: Water passed through this filter is equal to... or even better... than the water found in any bottled water you can buy anywhere in the world. The second bottom-line: Because of the unique materials used to create this filter, it can be miniaturized to the size of a walnut and still purify an enormous amount of water. So, what Seychelle Technologies now has ready to market is not water, it's a water bottle that purifies water. It's plastic. About the same size as a bottle of Avian, Perrier, Arrowhead or what have you... but... the difference is... the cap that goes on the bottle has an amazing ionic microfiltration device (it's a major trade secret) attached to the bottom of it... and... a small plastic straw going up through the top of the cap. Fill the bottle with water (from almost any source), screw on the cap... and then... you can sip through the straw... and drink safe water from any location on earth! This space-age water bottle retails for $29.95 and it will purify so much water...

You Can Refill It

More Than 1,000 Times!

To get that same amount of pure water (assuming it is pure) by purchasing bottled water, you would have to spend approximately $1,700.00! Plus, you'd have to keep going back to the store over and over. This invention saves lives! It has the potential of eradicating a significant percentage of human health problems. It is now being introduced on an emergency basis in Mexico, Argentina, China, Malaysia, Korea, India, and 11 other countries... and... some very private market research indicates that in 1998...

This Product Is Literally

Going To Swamp The U.S. Market!

Carl Palmer is extremely passionate about this invention.... because... as stated earlier... it can save lives and prevent an enormous amount of human misery. That's why he has chosen to work exclusively with Seychelle Technologies who... in turn... have agreed not to become involved with any other projects... so... they can focus 100% on the production and marketing of this one item! Seychelle Technologies (located at 1920 Main Street, Suite 1020, Irvine, California 92614) has enormous growth potential. They are passionately committed to producing and marketing Carl Palmer's amazing new invention... as fast... as their financing will allow them to expand! If you would like to have more information on this exciting company, you are welcome to call and leave your name and address with one of the secretaries at Seychelle Technologies.When you do that, you will be sent immediately (and free of charge) a video tape that features Carl Palmer explaining his invention... and... another man, DuSean Berkich (CEO of Seychelle Technologies) giving an overview of the company and its plans for expansion. Here's the number:

1-800-000-0000

Scroll Down To Learn More About The Stealth Psychology Used In The Water Ad

 

 

 

Sincerely,



Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S. Remember, email me and tell me what you think about the ad... and... how you think it performed.

 

Peace.


 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Halbert Publishing Inc.  All Rights Reserved.




 




Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Last week I posted a newsletter on this website which I titled simply "Water". That newsletter consisted almost entirely of an ad I wrote several years ago.

The newsletter described how a genius named Carl Palmer had made himself wealthy several times and how he was prone to chronic boredom unless he was working on an exciting project. The ad also told about his creation of a marvelous new product which could save millions of lives and was needed by virtually every human being on this planet.

In that newsletter, I told my readers the ad had ran twice as a full-page in Investors' Business Daily.

Then I asked my readers to email me their comments about the ad and how well they thought the ad did.

I have never before had such a high percentage of my readers make such  idiotic guesses about how well they thought an ad performed. The people who made truly insane guesses were those who worked in financial services... and sadly... those people who identified themselves as copywriters and/or direct response marketers.

The more analytical the response, the further it was from the truth of how the ad performed and why.

However, all is not lost. A handful of my most astute readers (just a tiny handful) got it exactly right.

Listen up: The ad is very confusing and deceiving to people with a first-rate marketing mind. You pretty much have to have a world-class marketing mind to understand the genius of that ad.

First, I will tell you how well the ad worked. It attracted an enormous number of qualified investors who, by my estimate, were willing to pony up in the neighborhood of $400,000,000 to participate in this project.

That ad is so Machiavellian, I believe not even 1 out of 1,000 readers will be able to understand its almost unbelievable power. This would truly be a candidate for the most powerful space ad ever written.

And sadly, I suspect none of you... even after you read that ad ten times... will ever have a clue of WHY it's so powerful.

Not only that, there is a "back story" concerning the ad. It involves very curious twists and turns... and... some of the most bizarre, slickest,  intelligent and corrupt people in the annals of American business.

I bet you would like me to lead you by the hand exactly through every step of the ad and explain what I was doing as I wrote every sentence. I bet you would also love to read the "rest of the story" about that ad.

I've been thinking about revealing all this for almost eight years. I still am not 100% certain I want to tell you all the secrets about the ad and the back story that goes with it.

But I've made myself a deal.

Now all of you know the answer as to how well the ad performed. None of you now have any excuse for emailing me and pontificating idiotic reasons why the ad did not work.

Here's what I want you to do: I want you to email me immediately with your best guess as to WHY the ad did work... and... performed so outstandingly it was almost unbelievable.

If enough of my readers (and by "enough" I mean almost ALL of them) email me their guesses about why this ad worked so well... I will write another newsletter this week and give you ALL of the answers in minute detail. But let me tell you something you better believe. This is me, Gary Halbert writing, and I'm not fooling around. If I don't get an ENORMOUS amount of emails from my readers guessing why the ad worked so well... and... if I don't get those email responses almost immediately, I'm not going to tell you the answers! I will take the secrets to my grave and all of you can go piss up a rope making absurd guesses about the ad for the rest of your pathetic lives.

Look, I don't mind you are all shitweasels. In fact, as the Alpha Shitweasel, I'm rather proud of that. However, I have no patience whatsoever with LAZY-MINDED shitweasels. So, if you are too mentally lethargic to make an immediate guess as to why the ad worked... don't send me an email. If there are enough of you who don't email me... none of you will ever know.

You know why from time to time I write a "kick-the-anthill" newsletter like this?

I do it for the same reason a dog licks his balls. It's because I can.

 	

Sincerely,


 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

"Supreme Master of Politically
Correct Communications"

P.S. If you're going to reply, send your email here.

P.P.S. If you're not going to reply, why don't you just stop reading this newsletter altogether and take up bowling?

Peace. 

CLICK HERE TO INSTANTY READ GARY'S BREAKDOWN OF THE WATER AD

 

 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Halbert Publishing Inc.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Write Killer Headlines! Audio Version Contains Bonus Material Available Here

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/zkkk_killer_headlines.htm

From:
W-a-y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

      My head hurts, my feet stink and I don't love Jimmy Swaggert.

      I don't want to be here at my desk writing this letter. I want to be on my boat. Writing sucks. I hate to write. Anybody who says they like to write is either a degenerate liar or a social leper. Let's face it: What kind of nerd wants to sit and struggle with a blank piece of paper when he could be 60 feet underwater slaughtering innocent fish... or... romancing his honey... or... going to a movie... or... playing golf... or... reading what somebody else has struggled to write...

      Or anything!

      Anything but writing. But alas, judging from the calls on my electronic mailbox, the numero uno subject my subscribers want me to write about is writing.

      So I am. Now, the first thing I want you to know about writing (other than how much it sucks) is the best way to get good at writing is...

By Writing!

      I know that sounds like double-talk but, it isn't. The biggest secret to writing well is simply work. Just the act of doing it. For the moment, forget about getting it perfect, forget about grammar, forget about syntax, punctuation, etc.

      Just sit down and start writing.

      John D. McDonald was one of the best writers of all time. He died in December of 1986 but, fortunately, he left a legacy of some of the most memorable fiction ever penned. In fact, I became literally addicted to his Travis McGee series. (You will too once you read one of them.) Anyway, when he was first getting started, he read somewhere the average novelist didn't really hit his stride until he had written about ten books. And so, what did McDonald do? It's very simple: He wrote the equivalent of ten novels in one year!

      Listen: Writing does get easier. However, starting to write does not. Therefore, if you've got a job of writing to do, just sit down and start.

      Don't wait to get organized. Don't wait for ideas or inspiration. Don't wait until you "feel like it." (I never do.)

Just Start!

      OK, enough of that. Now, it goes without say, (but let's say it anyway), the kind of writing we're concerned with here is, the kind that convinces people to buy something. And that's the hardest kind of writing of all. It's also the most profitable! You know, I routinely get more for writing a single letter than most authors get for writing an entire book.

      Or sometimes, ten entire books.

      So, let's get specific. To sell somebody something, you've got to do four things. (1) You've got to catch their attention. (2) You've got to capture their interest. (3) You've got to arouse their desire. (Sounds dirty, doesn't it?) and, (4) You've got to motivate them to action. This, as many of you know, is called the AIDA formula.

      Attention

      Interest

      Desire

      Action

      Today, we're going to concentrate on getting people's attention by learning how to write what I call "killer" headlines. Hark unto me. Listen: If you want to capture the attention of someone in a crowd, what's the best way to do it? It's really quite elementary, My Dear Watson. What you do is...

You Call Him By Name!

      And, if you want someone riveted to your sales letters, hook up with some outfit that can do Admark or laser printing (or else use your word processor) and put your reader's name in a headline printed at the top of the sales letter you send him. Like this:

Ben Suarez Attempts Suicide
After Realizing He'll Never Be
As Good-Looking As Gary Halbert!

or...

Bill Bonner Fails To Hire The
Prince Of Print And Loses Millions!

or...

Frank Cawood Cashes In Big
By Mailing Unique
"Concept Letter" Developed By
California Madman!

or...

Jimmy Calano Changes His Will
And Leaves All His Millions
To Guru Gary!

or...

Alicia Evans Expresses Astonishment
At Seeing Her Name In Newsletter
Written By Demented Nerd From Ohio!

      And so on. What I have just described is the ultimate way to get attention in a sales letter. No one, not even someone as blase` as Feeney Griffith, will fail to perk up at seeing his or her name in print, especially if it's unexpected.

      Of course, we can't always use our prospects' names in our headlines so, what are some other good ideas? Here are three of the most powerful:

1.         Put news in your headline.

2.         Promise a benefit in your headline.

3.         Do both of the above in the same headline.

      Here are some good words to use in headlines. Announcing... At last... Now... Now, at last... How to... Here are... 17-Ways to... The art of... The secret of... A startling fact about... Amazing... New...

      And so on. Now, here's a headline that combines both news value and the promise of a benefit:

At Last! Scientists Discover New
Way To Look Younger In Just 17-Days!

      There's much to be learned in the 13 words above. At Last!: Boy, that sure suggests something we've been waiting for has finally happened, doesn't it? Goody! Goody! Scientists: Yeah! Not just anybody; not some know nothing bag lady living in the streets; not some ad man or copywriter. No. No. We're talking about a select, objective, hard-headed, analytical, totally honest group of folks who validate our headline. Discover: Wow! It seems to connotate research laboratories and maybe a scientific breakthrough. New Way: Hussah! Hussah! We're all questing for new ways continually, aren't we? New ways to grow hair, get thin, make more money, etc. To Look Younger: Ah, who is there among us over the age of 30 that wouldn't welcome the achieving of this almost universally-sought after benefit? In Just 17-Days!: More validation because it's so specific. Claude Hopkins said it, "Generalities fall off your readers like water off a duck's back." Or something like that. Anyway, the specificity of 17-Days makes our headline more believable, more easily understood and somehow, more interesting. And, more real.

      How important are headlines? I'm glad you asked. Some pundits say the headline accounts for 80% of the success of the ad. I, myself, have re-headlined ads and increased their pull by 475%. I have a client who pays me $195,000 per year to write headlines. Headlines are where I spend more creative effort than any other aspect of my work.

      Good headlines are crucial.

      Let's take a breather so I can ask you a question. What publication has the highest paid writers? Answer: the National Enquirer. Yep, it's true. And for good reason. You see, the writers for the Enquirer are among the best anywhere on earth. I'm not being sarcastic. They really are. If you doubt that, here's something for you to consider...

More People Read Any
Single Issue Of The
Enquirer Than Have Read
The Bible Since It
Was First Printed!

      Enquirer articles are superbly written. They are clear, concise, crisp and, all in all, the most easily understood articles of any publication.

      And what do Enquirer writers excel at above all else? You guessed it -- HEADLINES. Their headlines are so powerful, they have so much "grabbing power" that, every week, people who have sworn they'll never again buy such a publication, are almost forced to purchase it in spite of themselves.

      So anyway, if the best way to get good at writing is by writing, what is the best way to get good at writing headlines?

      That's easy... it's by writing headlines.

      Here's what you do: Every week you get copies of the National Enquirer, Star, Globe, Weekly World News and so on. And, on a monthly basis, you get copies of Reader's Digest, Cosmopolitan and any other magazine you can find that has lots of good headlines. And you get yourself a large supply of 3"x5" index cards and you write all those good headlines on those cards, one to a card.

      By the way, a superb source of good headlines is one of the reference reports included with my seminar tapes. It's called:

349 Great Headlines
152 Attention Grabber Words
Sample Ads
Sample Letters

      This is truly a "masterpiece collection" of headlines and other ammo that should be a part of every copywriter's library. Many of you (perhaps most) have my seminar tapes and all the related material and those of you who don't... should!

      Call and order right now (323-851-8275) and all this invaluable info will be on its way to you in a matter of hours!

      Forgive me, pitching is in my bones and I just can't help myself sometimes. Especially, if I have a strong belief in the product.

      Whatever. OK, now we've got all these hundreds of headlines on hundreds of headline cards and, in a moment, I'm going to show you how to massage all this good stuff to produce maximum results.

      But first, a true story. Remember that ad I sent with my newsletter a couple of months back? The one where I said, when it comes to advertising I was the best thing since sliced bread and, that to get me you had to shell out $15,000 up front and offer me a substantial "carrot" (usually 5% of gross sales) on the back end?

      Alright. I get a call as a result of that ad from a guy in Denver who says he would have no problem paying me my $15,000 advance but the 5% part wouldn't work since he's a furniture dealer (3 stores) and furniture is sold at varying markups.

      So I come back to him by asking what I'd have to do for him to be worth $15,000 per month.

      "Increase my business by 20%," he says.

      "Send me my $15,000 advance and $15,000 more on the first of every month and I'll see to it you sell every stick of furniture possible to sell in Denver," I say.

      He did and I did.

      Here's the way we work: First, you need to know I now have these people on a schedule of 365 full-page (newspaper) ads per year. In a week or so that schedule will be bumped to about 400 pages per year and soon it will be 730 pages per year and later, when we hit 1,000 pages per year, we're going to slack off.

      By the way, all this is supplemented with a steady stream of radio advertising and a little TV.

      Now listen: There's no way in the world I'm going to commit to writing hundreds of ads per year and besides, I'll never now the furniture business as well as my client.

      So the way we work it is, I "theme" the thrust of the advertising and I write headlines to go with those themes. Then, my client writes the ads and faxes them to me and I read them and make any necessary changes.

      Does this M.O. work? Judge for yourself. In the first two weeks after I came on board...

My Client Had To
Hire 10 New Full-Time
Employees!

      And now, after the first six weeks, their sales are up 40%. You know, that's quite a lot when you consider...

They Were Already Doing
$14 Million Per Year!

      I'd like to take full credit for all this but I can't. In the first place, Sam and Leslie Fishbein know the furniture business inside and out and Sam is truly a superb copywriter.

      By the way, all this seems to be working out so well I think we're going to "syndicate" our advertising by making our collective expertise available to one other furniture dealer in each metro area throughout the U.S.

      Back to the salt mines. OK, so right now I owe Sam and Leslie some "themes" and headlines and, I'm going to create them right here before your very eyes. What I'm doing first is, I'm going to loosen up my mind by reading some gag headlines written by Sam and his staff. I'm not doing this just for laughs. No. I'm doing it to get my mind in gear and to see if...

I Can Catch
A Spark!

      Here are the headlines I'm looking at:

Modern Day King Tut Furnishes
Bizarre Backyard Burial Tomb With
Kacey Fine Furniture -- "I Want Only
The Best," He Explains, "Because
You Can Take It With You!"

 

Two Headed Woman Shops Kacey                          Pregnant Woman Has A Cow
And Gets Double Whiplash                                       When She Sees Her Leather
Looking At Bargains!                                                Sofa For Less At Kacey's!w

 

Scientists Reveal Elvis
Lives -- Close Friends Confirm
King's Plan To Redecorate
Graceland With Kacey Fine Furniture!

 

Vampire Stooped With Back                                  Siamese Twins Come Unglued
Pain Ditches Coffin For                                           Doing Double-Take at
Kacey Bedding In Latest                                         Kacey Blockbuster Sale!
 Attempt To Rest-In-Peace!

 

Human Cannonball Blown Away By
Kacey's Explosive Price Cuts
And Soaring Selections!

      And so on. Hmn? This stuff is bizarre even by my standards. But, it does serve to get the juices flowing, doesn't it? Now, let's review some of the actual headlines we've already used. Here's a few:

WARNING: Don't Hire Any
Interior Decorator Until
You Hear This:

 

Local Furniture Dealer Will Give Away Over
One Million Dollars In Discounts On Her
Entire Inventory (This July 4th Weekend)
Because Of Bulldozers Tearing Up Her Streets!

 

Need New Furniture?
5 Reasons Why You Should                                     Extremely Low Prices From Local
Not Shop At The Store                                              Furniture Store May Be Deemed
Mentioned Below!                                                     "Unfair" To Competition!

 

Who Else Wants To Buy A                                       Do You Make These
Roomful Of Furniture                                                Mistakes When You
Without Making Payments                                       Shop For Furniture?
For At Least 6 Months?

 

Are You Willing To Walk Up                                    Local Businessman Swears Under
To 3 Blocks To Save As Much                                   Oath He Did Not Steal Any
As 50% On All The Furniture                                 Of The Furniture He Is Selling
You Need?                                                                      So Cheaply!

      And so on.

      OK, as promised a few pages ago, I am now going to reveal the simple way to "massage" all this data to come up with something new. First, I do what I just did. Namely, I review what's already been done. Next, I get to my own personal collection of "headline cards" and pick them up and fondle them (I'm getting excited!) and look at them and think about them and flip them out onto the floor like I would a deck of cards and I cogitate and I remember...

      I remember someone once said (was it Justice Learned Hand?) that freedom of speech does not give you the right to yell "Fire!" in a crowded theater. I remember my headline must not only grab attention, it must also be true and relevant. I remember Kacey Fine Furniture really does have a problem with the street around their store being torn up. I remember they really do have great furniture (Paulette and I are buying a whole houseful from them) at extremely low prices. I remember... Hey, I've got it! Check this out:

The Amazing Secret Of The Local
Furniture Dealer Who Is Giving
Away All Those Free Samples!

      See, what Sam and Leslie have is some really neat coffee tables they got such a deal on they can afford to give them away to all new buyers and their amazing secret is they've discovered by offering a free premium to induce you to come in and buy and then giving rock-bottom prices to keep you happy, you'll be a loyal customer forever and... and...

The Competition Won't
Have A Chance!

      And, as usual, when Sam Fishbein does his usual brilliant job of "fleshing out" this idea, we'll have, I believe, another winner.

      And now that I've finished my newsletter for this month and developed another "theme" and headline for the Fishbeins, I ask you...

Wasn't That A Nifty
Way To Kill Two Birds
With One Stone?

      Amen.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"The Hemingway of Headlines"

P.S. I just took on the marketing job of selling an album that contains the earliest ELVIS Presley concert ever recorded. Wait till you see that ad!

P.P.S.  Damn, I'm good.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Separating World-Class Copywriters From Lesser Brethren! Audio Version Contains Bonus Material Available Here

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zakj_lesser_brethren.htm

From:
WAY West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Let's hustle our bustles! We've got a brand new year stretching out before us and, if we get moving right now, we can leave everybody else biting the dust!

Say, wait a minute. Do you remember how I said in my November letter that, more often than you would ever believe, a lot of postal workers simply throw your mail away without bothering to try to deliver it? I wonder, did you think I was being a little too paranoid?

I wasn't. I was simply stating the ugly truth. That issue of my newsletter was dated November 1, 1986 and 2-1/2 weeks later on November 18th the little article reproduced below appeared in the Los Angeles Times.

Postman Convicted
of Destroying Mail

From Reuters

    MINNEAPOLIS - A postman who said he was tired of hauling around stacks of junk mail was convicted Monday of trying to destroy 93 bundles of it.

A federal court jury found Stephen Spoerner, 36, guilty on three counts of destroying mail. He could face up to 15 years in jail and a fine of up to $750,000.

He was arrested last year when a nursing home janitor found undelivered stacks of advertisements and solicitations dumped in an incinerator.

Postal inspectors said Spoener dumped the mail three times and undercover agents caught him in the act the third time.

When he was arrested Spoerner said, "I made a bad judgement error.... I only did this on occasions of heavy mail volume.

I told you so. I told you so. Now let's go on to fresh business. Last month I promised you that this month I was going to reveal to you the most powerful and important technique of all when it comes to writing copy. I am now about to keep that promise. As I explain this technique, you will also learn why I said in my DM pitch for my newsletter that the most important element of good writing is physical and not mental.

To begin, I want to tell you about a concept I consider so important that I believe you should write it down or tape it to your desk or shaving mirror or wherever else you are sure to see it nearly every day. Here is that concept:

More Answers Will Be Found
Through Movement Than
Will Ever Be Found Through
Meditation

Let me "unpack" that thought a little so you'll be able to see how it applies to writing copy. Most copywriters, when they sit down to work, deliberately try to be creative. They try very hard to be clever. They struggle and struggle to "dream up" an ad or direct mail piece that will make people buy.

No good. This is a very dumb way to go about trying to sell goods and services.

Would you like to know what really separates a world class copywriter (or in-print salesman) from his lesser brethren? It's nothing mysterious. In fact, it's really quite simple: You see, when it comes to copywriting or, for that matter, any type of selling, what really separates the pros from the bums is one simple ingredient and...

This Ingredient Is The Willingness
To Become Intimately Involved With Your Market!

Listen: You can't learn what's going on in the hearts and souls and minds of your customers or prospects by sitting around trying to be clever. No. What you must do, my friend, if you really want to learn how to sell, is you must sally forth and go out amongst them. You need to walk with them, talk with them, eat with them, weep with them, laugh with them and, in general, do whatever you can do to get to know your customers as well as possible. Here are five steps you can take that are guaranteed to make you a far better copywriter (in-print salesman) than anyone who does not take these five steps.

Step #1:	

Get A  Printout Of The Names And Addresses 
Of Your Customers And Best Prospects 
And Then Sit Down And Read That Printout

Doing this will give you a preliminary "feel" for your market. Look at the names of your customers. Are there more women than men or vice versa? Does there seem to be an unusually high percentage of names from a certain ethnic group? Are your customers more likely to be Spanish than Jewish? Or more Jewish than Christian? Do your customers most often use their full names or do they hide behind initials? Look at the addresses. Do your customers tend more to live in urban areas or do they live out in the sticks? Do a lot of the addresses have apartment number or do most of them seem to live in individual one-family houses?

Here's a way to make this little exercise even more illuminating: Get a printout of all the customers who live in a geographic area with which you are familiar. This way your "mind's eye" will be able to see those neighborhoods (if any) where your customers tend to cluster. Do a high percentage of them live in high income areas like Bel Aire or Beverly Hills? Or do most of them seem to live in blue collar neighborhoods? Do many of them live in the slums? Say, by the way, remind me sometime to tell you what Martin Baier (of Old American Insurance) found out when he first did a zip code regression analysis of Old American's customers.

Onward.

Step #2:	

Look At The Mail You 
Receive From Your Customers

Note: I didn't say read it; I said look at it. And make sure you look at the envelopes along with the letters. Take a few days and look at all the mail they send you including both orders and "white mail." Do most of them use a typewriter or is most of your mail hand-written? Is the stationery imprinted or embossed or do most of them use plain paper and envelopes or maybe those little return address labels? What can you tell by looking at the handwriting? Does a lot of it look like arthritic chicken scratching painfully scrawled by old people on pensions and social security? Or is most of the handwriting clear, firm and strong? How is the postage put on the envelopes? Is it metered or stamped? Does a lot of your mail come stuffed with those little printed religious tracts that are nearly always mailed out by miserable people with pathetic little wet brains?

Do your orders come in the form of cash, money orders or even stamps instead of checks? And speaking of checks, look at those too. Are most of the checks you receive from married people with joint accounts or are most of them only imprinted with one name?

Listen: At this point, don't bother trying to get too analytical or form any precise conclusions about your customers. Just keep pouring over your mail and keep saying "Hmn?" every once in a while. Your focus, at this point, will still be quite fuzzy but let's face it, a fuzzy focus is certainly better than no focus at all, isn't it?

But since it's not good enough, let's press on.

Step #3:	

Now Start Reading Your 
Mail And Start Taking 
Telephone Calls 
From Your Business Customers

I mean you should do this! Not your secretary or one of your assistants. Put out the word in your organization that you personally want to take (if possible) every customer call and read every letter that comes in for a period of two to three days. Take calls and read letters from people who want to order. Take calls and read letters from people who want more information about your company and your products! Take calls from people who want a refund and, when you take those calls, really talk with them. Ask them questions. What made them buy your product? What made them send it back? What would make them like your products better? Is this the first time they called or the second or third or ninth or tenth?

Want to do something really instructive and profitable? Try this: Spend a week taking telephone orders and, after you take the order, play around with trying to upgrade that order. Find out what works. Will they order more if you give a little gift for multiple orders? Or maybe a discount? Will they pay extra to have the item personalized? How does it work if you say "Buy two and I'll send you a third one free!"?

Consider this: If you read last month's issue, you know that my work and travel schedule is a little on the heavy side. However, if you've ever written me or telephoned my office, you know that I respond to my mail promptly and that I almost always am very happy to talk to anybody who calls. I also accept speaking engagements with considerable regularity.

Why do I do this? Well, you tell me: How in the hell else am I going to know what goes on in all those demented marketing minds with whom I am trying to communicate?

Step #4:	

Start Making 
Telephone Calls 
To Your Customers

And now, good buddy, we are starting to get down to those activities that really separate the men from the boys. You know, I bet you would never believe how many "marketing consultants" don't have the nerve to actually call someone up and (gulp!) actually ask them to buy something. Do you? Here's a good way to do it: Have your secretary get the names, addresses and telephone numbers of 100 of your best customers.

Next, send every one of those customers a personally typed letter with a dollar bill attached to the top of the first page. Tell your customer that you are doing this (attaching the dollar bill) because you have something very important to tell him and you wanted to make sure you caught his attention.

Next, tell him something important!

Tell him about your newest product and all the reasons he should buy it. Or tell him a new reason why he should now buy more of your old products.

And next, about three days after you mail those 100 letters, you sit down and telephone all those people. And, when they answer, you say something like this:

"Mr. Jones? Listen: this is Mr. Smith. I'm calling to make sure you got the letter I just mailed to you. Did you get it yet? I sent it three days ago and it had a dollar bill attached to it."

"What's that? You did get it? Good! Listen: 
Did you read it yet? About how we're having our special red tag, two-for-one sale?"

"You did read it? Great! Look, have you decided how many of our widgets you're going to order? Which ones do you like best? The red ones or the green ones?"

And so on.

Hark unto me, my friend: if you will do this (most people won't), you will learn more about how to sell to your customers than 1,000 other "creative" guys who are sitting around mind-stupping themselves in their ivory towers!

Step #5:	

Go Out To Where Your Customers Live 
And Knock On Their Front Doors 
And Ask If You Can Come In 
And Talk To Them

Uh oh! This is a scary thought, isn't it? Now we're actually getting hard-core. I mean, seriously, is a drastic step like this actually necessary?

It's your decision. All I know is that those who have the nerve, the conviction, the enthusiasm and the ability to sell to people in person have an enormous advantage when it comes to selling to those same people via ads and letters.

Why? The answer is simple. You see, when it comes to writing great copy, it is not so much a matter of knowing how to write as it is of knowing what to write. And the plain truth is that those selling points that will work best in an ad or a letter are the same ones that will work best when you are selling face-to-face.

You know, I have toyed with the idea of someday maybe publishing a list of the ten best copywriters in the industry. If I ever do, that list is going to break the hearts of some of those guys who think they are real pros. The reason is that, most of them, the very best copywriters (salesmen) do not go by the title "copywriter" at all. Instead, they are much more often the men and women who own their businesses and have had to learn to write copy themselves because they couldn't find a "pro" who could do the job for them. I'm talking about guys like Ben Suarez, Joe Sugarman and Drew Alan Kaplan.

Whatever. I've just given you five very powerful techniques for learning more about your customers and what turns them on and what turns them off. This list is by no means complete. There's a lot of other stuff you can do. You can send out questionnaires (weak but better than nothing); you can hire someone to do a phone survey (sissy-like but somewhat instructive); you can hire a high-priced ad agency to get some of your customers together in a "focus group" (the agency's real focus will be on getting your business rather than selling your goods); or, if you wish, you can simply go back to trying to "dream up" solutions to your marketing problems.

Three Inspiring Examples

Is getting to know your customers really worth the time and trouble? Listen up. Many years ago, a certain food company (I think it was Pillsbury) came out with an instant cake mix. All you had to do was add milk or water, stir it up a bit, and pop it in the oven. The advertising then was:

"We Do It All For You!"

The campaign was a flop. Can you guess why? Probably not. And, almost certainly not unless you understand what goes on in the minds of women who love to bake cakes. Anyway, in this case, what happened is, that the food company decided to hire a very famous (and deservedly so) marketing psychologist by the name of Ernest Dicher. What happened next is that Dicher discovered (by actually talking with the company's customers) that when a woman bakes a cake it is for her an act of creation; it is like giving birth. Therefore, these cake-baking women were turned off by the idea that the "creative process" of baking a cake would no longer require their involvement.

And so, after Dr. Dicher discovered this little golden nugget of insight, the theme of the campaign was changed to:

"We Do It Together"

Bingo! Hundreds of millions of dollars in instant cake mix sales!

Another example: Once upon a time, Sir Gary Halbert lost his social security card (I'd lose my nose if it wasn't stuck to my face). When I went to my local social security office to get a new card, I was appalled. Most of the other people in the office were elderly and they were there because their social security checks were late or missing or because they had questions.

I'm telling you, those people were treated like dirt! They were given numbers like supplicants in a bread line, made to come back day after day and, in general, treated like troublemakers instead of tax payers. A few days later I was visiting someone who worked for the Akron Beacon Journal and I was telling him about my experience when he told me something very interesting. He said they used to publish, as a public service, the Social Security form that is called "REQUEST FOR STATEMENT OF EARNINGS." He then informed me that they no longer published that form because too many people filled it out and sent it back to the paper for forwarding to Social Security headquarters. In fact, as I recall, he told me that even when they buried the form at the bottom of page 74 that they got replies from 17% of their circulation!

Which of course caused Gary "The Prince of Print" to sit up and take notice and to promptly write an ad headlined:

How To Collect
From Social Security
At Any Age

The ad had a double coupon. The left half of the coupon was a reproduction of the REQUEST FOR STATEMENT OF EARNINGS which we offered to send to the Social Security headquarters for the customer. The right side of the coupon was an order form for our book (same title as the headline) which would tell him how to maximize all those benefits he had already paid for.

Did it work? Lordy! Lordy! That ad pulled an average of 35 orders per thousand circulation from almost every newspaper in which it ran. Best of all, that ad made me, Sir Gary "The Ace of Space" $800,000.00 in net profit.

And ripoffs of that ad are still running today.

What's that? You say, $800,000.00 is peanuts to you? O.K., Mr. Smartypants, I'll give you a "big money" example. As you may or may not know, my first successful mail order product was a "Family Name Research Report." This item was a simple 8-1/2 x 11 parchment-like sheet of paper that told you the meaning and origin of your surname and had a line drawing of the family crest that was recorded with that name.

I tried and tried and tried to sell those reports. I wrote letter after letter after letter. Failure. Failure. Failure.

Then I had an idea. I put a bunch of the "Miller Reports" into my briefcase. Then I got out the phone book for Canton, Ohio and I looked up the address of everybody named Miller. Then I went out and knocked on their doors and showed them the reports and got their reactions to this product.

So what happened after this little "field trip"? I'm glad you asked. What happened is I came back and sat down and wrote the most widely mailed (140 million) sales letter in history. And that letter, based in part on the insights gained from my field trip, created more than 7,300,000 customers and built a business that eventually employed some 700 people and did perhaps $140,000,000.00 in business!

So there.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
In-Print Salesman
The "Ace of Space"
The "Prince of Print and all-around Bon Vivant

 

P.S.	You know what? I'm getting a little tired of teaching everybody how to do it right so next month under the subject of:

Does Your High-Priced Ad Agency
Do Any Of These 10 Stupid Things?

.... I am going to teach you how to do it wrong!


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Gary Halbert's Unfinished Business

Kilde: https://thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/unfinishedbusiness

Email Us



From:
Los Angeles, California

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

Halberts are notorious for letting unfinished business pile up until it is forgotten but I for one am working very hard to change my ways.

Recently, I have been going through old emails and methodically taking care of things I should have taken care of a long time ago which sometimes includes taking care of...

Gary Halbert’s Unfinished Business

First, I need you to know that in business, there is nothing we Halberts like more than...

Raking In A Ton of Cash for Very Little Work

Other people like to build empires but we like to grab a bunch of fungolas and head out to go shopping for toys like boats, cars, watches, clothes etc and then we take a bunch of time off.

We work hard when we have to but I for one measure money in time. Every time I get a check, wire transfer or a bag of cash, I immediately calculate how much time it will buy me before I have to go back to work.

Unlike my father, I’m not comfortable living on the edge, so I always have enough money in reserve to pay the bills and put food on the table for at least 3 years and I haven’t “needed” to work in over 14 years but I still love fast cash which is why what I’m about to share is so exciting.

I also know for a fact that our father intended to write a newsletter about this because the story can put a lot of money in your pocket.

Here it is.

Back in 2006 a man named Nader Anise used what he learned from The Gary Halbert Letter to slap together a sales page which brought in hundreds of thousands of dollars in sales and I’m about to point out the parts of his sales page you can replicate to make your business a lot of money very fast.

I know for a fact our father was very impressed with Nader’s results and intended to write about this in his newsletter and here is proof...

Nader was selling marketing advice to bankruptcy lawyers when he took a page out of Gary Halbert’s book and put together this very clever piece of sales copy.

Now before you think his ad doesn’t look very impressive let me share some numbers and explain how to use the brilliant copy to make money right now.

First, the digits...

32.5% of the unique visitors to the site purchased the $25 teleseminar. There were 198 total buyers x $25 = $4,950 in teleseminar sign ups alone.

An Amazing 97.5% of the lawyers who purchased the teleseminar actually dialed in to listen. No refunds were requested and almost everyone stayed until the very end of the call.

On the telseminar, Nader sold DVDs of his legal marketing training for an extra $26,896 with an average sale of $135.84.

Over the next two years, as a result of this one teleseminar, Nader sold hundreds of thousands of dollars in coaching/consulting, and copywriting products to the exact same bankruptcy lawyer niche.

So without any further ado, here is the ad and then I'm going to break it down....

Link To Nader's Sales Page On A Wayback Site

The Five Huge Lessons You Can Use To Make More Money Out Of ALL Your Marketing

 

Lesson Number One

Now this ad has all the elements of effective copy and it would take hours to explain every little detail so I'm going to cover the big takeaways and explain how to use these ideas to make massive improvements to your own copy.

Let's start with the most important piece of copy which is always your headline.

1. All standard copywriting courses teach you to call out your prospects in the headline and in this case the target audience is bankruptcy attorneys. Make sure the headline let’s prospects know the the copy is talking about people just like them.

If your customers are divorced people say something in the headline which makes them think “hey that's me!”

2. Never give away the secret or lead on that what they are about to read is an ad. Make your headline sound like a news story just as Nader did in this case.

3. Make sure your prospects can see from the headline there may be some benefit by reading the ad. The bankruptcy lawyers reading this ad are obviously hoping to learn how people like them are cashing in on new bankruptcy laws.

4. Make sure your headline talks about something which appears to be happening now. All humans have a fight or flight response to anything new. That is to say they immediately try to determine if this is something they want to get away from or if this is something they want.

You can trigger the response which makes them feel like they need to run after your products by wording the headline in such a way that something good for them is happening right NOW as opposed to about to happen or has happened.

Here is an example:

Compare these two headlines...

Copywriters Who Took The Halbert Workshop In The Past Have Been Able To Double Their Prices

Copywriters Signing Up For The New Halbert Workshop Are Able To Double Their Prices!

The second headline triggers that more urgent need to get in on the workshop.

Lesson Number Two

The second lesson I'd like to point out is your proof elements must meet the expectations of prospects and this sales page is a perfect example.

The video on the right straight up says Nader is a recognizable leader in his industry. It shows a lawyer surrounded by law books and in a fancy lawyer-like suit being interviewed.

This is all off to the right so as soon as a prospect is wondering “who is this Nader guy?” the answer is right there but the sections are clearly formatted so the reader knows it's there but doesn't have to read this until they have that question.

The testimonials come in the middle of the copy just where a bankruptcy lawyer would want to know if this really works which is a hot tip.

Read your copy as though you are a potential buyer and mark the minute you would start asking yourself any questions and then... make the statements that will answer those questions right before the point you would start wondering.

A great copywriter tries to control the propsect's every thought and always wants them to hear what they need to know in order to buy before they can even think of any questions they might have.

Lesson Number Three

Always spell out the risks vs. the benefits for the prospect.

In PS #1 Nader points out that all the attendees are risking is $25 and the potential benefit is a lot of income. The higher the price, the more time you should spend explainig the risks vs. the benefits to the prospects.

When I sold high ticket items I would make the following statement.

Suppose I am a complete fraud. Imagine I don't care about the reputation I built over many years and I am going to give up my home and family, run off to Costa Rica with your $4,000 and start my life over. In this case you may have to contact your credit card company and wait up to 90 days to get your money back but what if I'm right?

What if what I have to show you gives you a whole new income stream and the financial independence you have been searching for?

If you think about it this way, you really can't afford to not give my service a try.

Lesson Number Four

Do NOT stop selling your product after an event such as a webinar.

When marketers host a successful webinar they usually just repeat the process over and over again until they get tired and then move on to something else which is a giant mistake. You can simply add a few lines to the top explaining the recordings are being made available but you can also make more money by re-mailing offers to the people who attended.

Nader sent one email to the attendees on Wednesday, one on Thursday, and one of Friday -- offering the same products. Remarkably, as a result of those three emails, he DOUBLED the number of sales he made on the day of the teleseminar.

Lesson Number Five


Of course there are lots of other standard lessons in this copy about being sure to add bonuses, reinforcing your buyers' views of the industry etc but I want to point out one last simple copywriting strategy because this sale page is a perfect example.

Great marketers always use plain and ordinary everyday language just like the words used in this ad and this is targeting an entire industry of people who make a living using a college level vocabulary.

Notice Nader didn't use language like fiduciary or any other fancy words lawyers love to lord over regular folks.

This proves that great copy is simple to read no matter how educated the prospects are.

Never talk over your prospects head and always run your copy through a program like the Hemingway app and replace fancy words with simple words.

All the best,

Bond

P.S. Nader has a free newsletter you can get at www.jugularmarketing.com






Click Here To View Our Newsletter Archive	Click Here If You Want  To Be On My Newsletter Announcement List

Copyright © NoMax Publishing. All Rights Reserved

## A

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/askh_fighter_pilot_attitude.htm

From:
WAY West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Today I am going to begin the process of teaching you how to write copy. Not ordinary copy. Not the kind of copy that is written by ad agencies. Not copy that is limp, boring, sodden and dull.

No. Today you are going to begin the process of learning how to write "killer" copy! Copy that drags in not thousands or hundreds of thousands or millions or even tens of millions of dollars; but rather, copy that has the potential of increasing sales for you (or your clients) that can add up to hundreds of millions of dollars!

All in all, I dare say this will be the most interesting and exciting newsletter you will ever read on this subject.

So, let's see if I can live up to that boast. Listen to this: In the last 30-days or so, my travel schedule went something like this:

Los Angeles to Las Vegas
Las Vegas back to Los Angeles
Los Angeles to London
London to Brussels
Brussels back to London
London to New York
New York to St. Louis
St. Louis to Los Angeles
Los Angeles to Las Vegas
Las Vegas back to Los Angeles

In addition to (and in conjunction with) my travel schedule, I've been doing a little work: Currently, I'm in the process of putting together a couple of cable TV shows with Hal Morris and his daughter Debbie, I'm working on an account for a major health book publisher, I've conceptualized and created a brand new numismatic promotion, I'm working with some of the largest financial publishers on the planet, I'm working on a vitamin deal and a book publishing venture with Barbara Cartland (the Guinness Book of Records says she's the most prolific writer in the world) and, if Paulette's arithmetic is correct, something like 32 other major endeavors!

So what? What the hell does my travel and work schedule have to do with teaching you to write dynamite copy? Well, remember how I said I was going to make this the most exciting thing you've ever read on the subject? I did not say I was going to "fit it in" did I? No, I said this issue of the newsletter was going to be outstanding, didn't I? I didn't say you're going to have to settle for a "second class lesson" because I'm so busy, did I?

No. What I am saying is that no matter what, I intend to make this newsletter outstanding.

And that's how I feel about everything I write. Every ad. Every direct mail letter. Every TV commercial. Every radio commercial. Everything. And so, my friend, if you've been paying attention, you should have already guessed the most important thing you can have when it comes to writing great copy which is...

A "Fighter Pilot" Attitude!

Of all things that contribute to copywriting success (and success at any endeavor for that matter), the most important by far is attitude. An attitude that says that you will do (within the bounds of good taste and legality) anything that is necessary to make the work you are doing for yourself or your clients a success. No excuses. No missed deadlines. No half-assed work. No "throwing it together." No nothing except for your very best.

Not Ever!

So much for ingredient #1. Now let's get into ingredient #2. Recently, I did a direct mail package for Brian Smith whose "Personal Finance" newsletter is the largest circulation hard money newsletter in the world. That package included an 8-page letter which took me five weeks to write to get to the point where I was satisfied with it. As a matter of fact, I did 23 drafts of the first page alone.

And thus, we have a prime example of ingredient #2 which simply is...

Hard Work!

Most advertising is written by guys who think they are "creative." I am always amused (somewhat sourly) by copywriters who explain how they get their marketing inspirations while working in splendid isolation somewhere in the woods of New Hampshire or while tramping some lonely beach north of San Francisco or in some other God-forsaken place where there are no "people" around to interfere with the wondrous flow of their creative juices.

Oh gosh, it doesn't seem to work that way with me. I get insights and ideas from going out amongst the market. And what is the market? You know, it seems to me that the "market" is people. Want to know where I learned to sell? And, in fact, where anybody who really knows how to sell also learned how to do it? Most "creatives" would never guess because where I learned was...

In The World

Yes boys and girls, I've been a door-to-door salesman, an MP, a prison guard, a prison inmate, owner of several corporations (one employed 700 people), a publisher (of books, newsletters, etc.), a scuba diver, a fool, a fraud, a savior, an idiot, a hero, a parent, a lust-crazed salivating degenerate (I still am); I've worked with movie stars, morons, Machiavellian manipulators, saints, sinners and so forth and I say this unto ye:

"Do Not Ever Trust (Or Hire)
A Copywriter Who Is
Not Of This Earth!"

Whatever. Let us now, at long last, begin to get specific. I am now about to tell you the true story of how I wrote the most successful ad that was ever written. By reading this amazing little saga, you are going to learn several of those ingenious and essential ingredients that all of your ads must contain if you want them to be truly spectacularly successful.

Now for the story: Once upon a time, back in 1978, I met and began dating an exceptional and delightful young lady who lived in Santa Monica. At the time I met her she was one of those women who was so pretty it almost hurt your eyes to look at her face. She had an executive position with a company that produced custom-designed aquariums, a sparkling personality, a neat, sexy little body, a good sense of humor, many useful talents and skills, and, on top of all that, she was even a gourmet cook. Actually, all in all, to tell the truth, she was pretty much everything I ever wanted in a woman.

Or so I thought.

Unfortunately, my little Teresa (not her real name) also had a major problem with her self-esteem and, over the next few years, I noticed she would never let things get "too good." In other words, what she would do is, whenever we got dangerously close to financial or emotional prosperity, she would find some way to trash everything so we could get back to that morbid level of existence where she knew "we belonged."

There's a lot of people like that, both women and men, aren't there?

Whatever. In any case, this was really frustrating and, finally, after putting up with this nonsense for a lengthy period of time, I couldn't hack it anymore and Teresa and I drifted apart and I started dating other women. At first, this was really exciting. However, after a while, it got to be seriously depressing. You see, the women I started dating all looked good on the outside but, after I got to know them, many of them seemed to be mentally deranged, emotionally crippled, delirious with drugs or, perhaps, just plain airheaded.

So I went back to Teresa.

And I tried once again to make it work. I tried hard. No luck. Teresa still couldn't handle prosperity. Her inner miasma magnet was still in excellent working order and, once again, whenever things started getting too good, she would do something that would alter the course of our lives and head us right back in the direction of the nearest emotional swamp.

No good. After a few months, I once again gave up the struggle to make this contorted relationship work and, once again, Teresa and I split up.

But this time it was for keeps. I just couldn't bear the idea of ever getting back together with Teresa and cranking up the same old misery machine. I also couldn't bear the idea of dating another collection of women only to discover they were all losers, lame brains, or drug addicts.

So what did I do? Very simple. I did without.

Yes, good friends, it is sad but true: For months and months and months poor old pitiful, feeling-sorry-for-himself, semi-handsome Gary never had a date. Not one. I filled my life with work. And watching TV reruns of "My Mother the Car." And going to the movies. And taking long walks and thinking semi-profound thoughts on the meaning of life. And so on.

And, eventually, after starting work on a manuscript called "Gary's Guide to Creative Sexual Abstinence" and, after finding myself slaving over a chapter titled "14 Fun Things To Do With Rutabaga," I knew I was losing it. I knew I had to do something to change the direction of my life or else I was going to go crazy.

So guess what? I wrote an ad.

And, it is this ad that I consider to be the most successful ever written. And, also, the best one I could ever choose to use as a "teaching model" to dramatically illustrate some of the in-print selling techniques that I consider critical. And now, my friend, I'm going to ask you to do something. What I'd like is for you to get yourself a cold beer, a cup of coffee, a soft drink or whatever you feel like having and then settle down in a nice comfy bed or chair and open up that ad (it's enclosed with this letter) and then very carefully read every word of it before you continue reading this newsletter.

Please do it now.

O.K., have you finished reading the ad? If not, you have cheated yourself because the rest of this newsletter won't be as clear to you as it could be. On the other hand, if you have read the ad, I want to issue a word of caution. It is this: you were probably amused by that particular ad just as you are, I suspect, sometimes amused by this newsletter. That's fine. However, do not deceive yourself that, just because my writing sometimes has "entertainment value", that, at the same time, that same writing is not serious.

I'm always serious about my work! Serious as cancer. And, the ad you just read was, without question the most "serious" ad I've ever written. Think about it: Other than your health, what in the world could conceivably be more important, than finding the ideal mate with whom to spend the rest of your life?

And now, before I go into a somewhat clinical discussion of why that ad was so successful, I want to tell you just how successful that ad was in order that you can more fully appreciate just how important (and rewarding) it can be to get all the elements of an ad just right.

So how successful was that ad? Gosh, I thought you'd never ask!

First, even though it wasn't intended to be a "commercial" ad, it would appear that this "personal" ad may be destined to become a great financial success because, as I told you earlier, (in the "Hot Flash" pink sheet that was included in my newsletter promotion), seven rather interesting things have happened in connection with this ad. Namely:

1	It has been featured on L.A.'s largest radio station (KABC) five times.
2	I have had two offers to write a book about the ad.
3	I have had two offers to make a movie about the ad.
4	I have, as a result of this ad, been introduced to and have dated the absolute hottest women in Los Angeles.
5	And, after tiring of the activities mentioned in item #4, I have, because of this ad, settled down with a wonderful, gorgeous redhead who is the love of my life and, in my opinion, the finest woman on planet earth.
6	As I write this, I have just been asked if I will agree to a TV interview about the ad here in L.A. on channel 9.
7	And finally, I am now getting paid to write an ad about the ad!

Well, it would appear that all that was just the beginning because, since back then, it would now seem that I am about to do my own (at least I'll own part of it) TV show built around that ad!

So, friends and neighbors, if I've got your attention, I now want to dissect the elements that made this ad such a great success and which must be present in any ad if it is destined to be a truly spectacular winner. Here are a few comments about some of these elements:

PASSION: Most ads and direct mail letters are written by people who do not appear to be excited about what they are writing. I'll never forget a certain insight I got out of a book called "The Writer's Handbook" that I read many years ago. To wit: "Most writers think their writing is far too dramatic when, in fact, it is not nearly dramatic enough."

As Claude Hopkins pointed out: "People will not be bored in print!"

Therefore, when you write an ad or DM promotion - go for it, damn it! Let your excitement and enthusiasm spill out all over the page. Don't hold back. Put that pen to the page and RAVE! Rave about your product, how great it is, how it will benefit the user, how it feels good, looks good, smells good, works good, how it makes you feel better, look better, how it will make you richer, healthier, thinner, more productive, more charming and so forth.

You know what new clients say to me all the time that is always wrong? It is this: "Yes, but my customers are different. They're not like those people who read the National Enquirer or buy stuff through the mail to look younger or lose weight or make a lot of money."

Hogwash!

Everybody is like "those" people who read the National Enquirer.

Including you.

Including me.

I don't care if your market is lawyers, MD's, rocket scientists, architects, members of high society or whatever... they will respond to passion. Passion is the #1 most missing ingredient in advertising today. Everybody seems to be more concerned about offending a few losers than they are about selling a multitude of winners. Who the hell cares about that small percentage of cowards who have nothing but time on their hands and who write caustic (and unsigned) letters in response to almost every solicitation they receive? I know I don't. But you know what? There are hundreds of companies in direct response who give up millions of dollars in sales every year just so they won't offend a small percentage of scumbags who will never buy from them anyway.

Listen: When you write copy you should never lie, never over exaggerate, never use poor taste, never be vulgar, never insult your reader's intelligence but you should also...

Stop Worrying So Much
About Offending People
And Start Worrying More
About Selling Them!

You know, there were a lot of fat, ugly, "loser" women who didn't like my ad but, boy oh boy, you should see the ones that did like it. You see,  when I wrote that ad,

I Didn't Worry About Offending The "Dogs"
Instead, I Concentrated On Selling The "Foxes."

Heh. Heh.

DETAIL: Hardly anybody puts enough detail into their promotions. Remember this: People who are not interested in your product or service don't want to know anything about it but, those who are interested, want to know everything about it. Here is a good way to think about writing an ad: Imagine that there are 10 new cars coming out next month and that you have to spend $40,000 to buy one of those cars "sight unseen!" Imagine that you can't even see a picture of the cars! Now tell me, how much detail would you want included in the ads about those cars before you wrote your $40,000 check?

Would you be satisfied with a few vapid generalities like: "It really looks great and it gets good gas mileage too!"?

I bet not. I bet before you shelled out your forty grand you'd want to know that that car got 23/7 MPG in the city on Chevron Unleaded and 31/4 MPG on the highway. I bet you'd want to know the exact horsepower, how many coats of paint is has, how long exactly the warranty is good for, the tread design of the tires and so on.

Listen: This principle is true, no matter what the unit price! When people buy by mail, they are buying sight unseen and they want to know everything you can tell them, even if the article you are selling costs $4 instead of $40,000. So, a good rule to remember is...

When You Are Selling
By Mail They Want To
Know All You Can Tell!

Give it to them.

TRUTH ABOUT FLAW: All products and services have defects. So do people. All of us are flawed. (Even me). When I wrote my personal ad I didn't say I was 6'4", did I? I didn't say I was "superstud", did I? I revealed a lot of stuff that made it very clear that I am a very imperfect human being, didn't I? Well, you know what? When you admit to (and describe) your shortcomings it makes you more believable when you talk up your good points, doesn't it?

Face it: Your product or service has flaws also.

Admit them.

CLARITY: The hallmark of all good writing is clarity. You do not necessarily achieve clarity by throwing in a lot of details and being specific. Your ads can be very detailed and very specific without being clear. Clarity is achieved by writing in an idiom in which your audience is conditioned to understand. Most writers write as though they would never be able to guess what idiom most of the people in America understand - which is...

Everyday English

Listen: The phrase "I'm sick as a dog" may not be very original or very "creative" but it sure as hell is very clear, isn't it?

Pay attention; here is a thought that will surprise you:

Most Writing Today Does
Not Contain Enough Cliches!

Sick as a dog. Fat as a hog. Poor as a churchhouse. Pretty as a picture. Slow as molasses in January. Dumb as an ox. Hot as a firecracker. Crazy as a bed bug. Out of the frying pan and into the fire. And so on.

Like I said, maybe those phrases aren't original; maybe they aren't creative but...

They Sure As Hell
Are Clear As A Bell,
Aren't They?

Here's an important little trick: Always read your copy aloud. By doing so, you will discover those little glitches and bottlenecks that slow down or stop the flow of your message.

Want to know an even better way to use that little trick? Once upon a time I used to live in Massillon, Ohio and I hung out in a place called Mike's Bar. Most of the people in Mike's were prospects for the kind of books and products I was selling back then. Stuff like books on how to collect government benefits you have coming and so on. So anyway, what I would do is take my ads down to Mike's Bar and read them to the guys there.

Now listen to this: If the response I got was, "Gee Gary, that sure is a good ad; you write real good!" then I knew I had a loser.

On the other hand, if my audience offered no comments about the ad whatsoever but instead asked...

"Gee, I'd Like To Have That Book.
Can You Get Me A Copy?"

Then, of course, I knew I had a winner.

But the worst response of all was, "Would you run that by me one more time? I'm not sure what you're getting at." You see, that meant I hadn't worked hard enough. It meant that my sentences and paragraphs were too long. That I wasn't writing in everyday English, that (usually) I hadn't bothered to read the ad aloud to myself before I read it to them.

Look, people aren't dumb, it's just that they can't be bothered to "demystify" what the hell you are trying to say.

And now for a "cliffhanger." I'm sorry but, at the moment, I'm running out of time, space, energy and what little sanity I have left. Therefore, I'm going to save the most important (by far!) technique of all for next month's letter where upon I will devote the entire issue to it.

Don't miss it!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
In-print Salesman
P.S.	Say, how do you like this newsletter so far? It's not much like the Friday Report, is it? By the way, I'd love to get a letter or phone call from you and hear your comments. Would you be willing to do that for a bribe? How about if I enclose a picture of Paulette who is the best of the best of all those who answered my personal ad? Would you do it? What's that? You say you've got to see the picture first?

What a hardcase you are! O.K., you've got a deal; look inside the sealed envelope.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Gary Halbert's Unfinished Business

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/unfinishedbusiness

Email Us



From:
Los Angeles, California

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

Halberts are notorious for letting unfinished business pile up until it is forgotten but I for one am working very hard to change my ways.

Recently, I have been going through old emails and methodically taking care of things I should have taken care of a long time ago which sometimes includes taking care of...

Gary Halbert’s Unfinished Business

First, I need you to know that in business, there is nothing we Halberts like more than...

Raking In A Ton of Cash for Very Little Work

Other people like to build empires but we like to grab a bunch of fungolas and head out to go shopping for toys like boats, cars, watches, clothes etc and then we take a bunch of time off.

We work hard when we have to but I for one measure money in time. Every time I get a check, wire transfer or a bag of cash, I immediately calculate how much time it will buy me before I have to go back to work.

Unlike my father, I’m not comfortable living on the edge, so I always have enough money in reserve to pay the bills and put food on the table for at least 3 years and I haven’t “needed” to work in over 14 years but I still love fast cash which is why what I’m about to share is so exciting.

I also know for a fact that our father intended to write a newsletter about this because the story can put a lot of money in your pocket.

Here it is.

Back in 2006 a man named Nader Anise used what he learned from The Gary Halbert Letter to slap together a sales page which brought in hundreds of thousands of dollars in sales and I’m about to point out the parts of his sales page you can replicate to make your business a lot of money very fast.

I know for a fact our father was very impressed with Nader’s results and intended to write about this in his newsletter and here is proof...

Nader was selling marketing advice to bankruptcy lawyers when he took a page out of Gary Halbert’s book and put together this very clever piece of sales copy.

Now before you think his ad doesn’t look very impressive let me share some numbers and explain how to use the brilliant copy to make money right now.

First, the digits...

32.5% of the unique visitors to the site purchased the $25 teleseminar. There were 198 total buyers x $25 = $4,950 in teleseminar sign ups alone.

An Amazing 97.5% of the lawyers who purchased the teleseminar actually dialed in to listen. No refunds were requested and almost everyone stayed until the very end of the call.

On the telseminar, Nader sold DVDs of his legal marketing training for an extra $26,896 with an average sale of $135.84.

Over the next two years, as a result of this one teleseminar, Nader sold hundreds of thousands of dollars in coaching/consulting, and copywriting products to the exact same bankruptcy lawyer niche.

So without any further ado, here is the ad and then I'm going to break it down....

Link To Nader's Sales Page On A Wayback Site

The Five Huge Lessons You Can Use To Make More Money Out Of ALL Your Marketing

 

Lesson Number One

Now this ad has all the elements of effective copy and it would take hours to explain every little detail so I'm going to cover the big takeaways and explain how to use these ideas to make massive improvements to your own copy.

Let's start with the most important piece of copy which is always your headline.

1. All standard copywriting courses teach you to call out your prospects in the headline and in this case the target audience is bankruptcy attorneys. Make sure the headline let’s prospects know the the copy is talking about people just like them.

If your customers are divorced people say something in the headline which makes them think “hey that's me!”

2. Never give away the secret or lead on that what they are about to read is an ad. Make your headline sound like a news story just as Nader did in this case.

3. Make sure your prospects can see from the headline there may be some benefit by reading the ad. The bankruptcy lawyers reading this ad are obviously hoping to learn how people like them are cashing in on new bankruptcy laws.

4. Make sure your headline talks about something which appears to be happening now. All humans have a fight or flight response to anything new. That is to say they immediately try to determine if this is something they want to get away from or if this is something they want.

You can trigger the response which makes them feel like they need to run after your products by wording the headline in such a way that something good for them is happening right NOW as opposed to about to happen or has happened.

Here is an example:

Compare these two headlines...

Copywriters Who Took The Halbert Workshop In The Past Have Been Able To Double Their Prices

Copywriters Signing Up For The New Halbert Workshop Are Able To Double Their Prices!

The second headline triggers that more urgent need to get in on the workshop.

Lesson Number Two

The second lesson I'd like to point out is your proof elements must meet the expectations of prospects and this sales page is a perfect example.

The video on the right straight up says Nader is a recognizable leader in his industry. It shows a lawyer surrounded by law books and in a fancy lawyer-like suit being interviewed.

This is all off to the right so as soon as a prospect is wondering “who is this Nader guy?” the answer is right there but the sections are clearly formatted so the reader knows it's there but doesn't have to read this until they have that question.

The testimonials come in the middle of the copy just where a bankruptcy lawyer would want to know if this really works which is a hot tip.

Read your copy as though you are a potential buyer and mark the minute you would start asking yourself any questions and then... make the statements that will answer those questions right before the point you would start wondering.

A great copywriter tries to control the propsect's every thought and always wants them to hear what they need to know in order to buy before they can even think of any questions they might have.

Lesson Number Three

Always spell out the risks vs. the benefits for the prospect.

In PS #1 Nader points out that all the attendees are risking is $25 and the potential benefit is a lot of income. The higher the price, the more time you should spend explainig the risks vs. the benefits to the prospects.

When I sold high ticket items I would make the following statement.

Suppose I am a complete fraud. Imagine I don't care about the reputation I built over many years and I am going to give up my home and family, run off to Costa Rica with your $4,000 and start my life over. In this case you may have to contact your credit card company and wait up to 90 days to get your money back but what if I'm right?

What if what I have to show you gives you a whole new income stream and the financial independence you have been searching for?

If you think about it this way, you really can't afford to not give my service a try.

Lesson Number Four

Do NOT stop selling your product after an event such as a webinar.

When marketers host a successful webinar they usually just repeat the process over and over again until they get tired and then move on to something else which is a giant mistake. You can simply add a few lines to the top explaining the recordings are being made available but you can also make more money by re-mailing offers to the people who attended.

Nader sent one email to the attendees on Wednesday, one on Thursday, and one of Friday -- offering the same products. Remarkably, as a result of those three emails, he DOUBLED the number of sales he made on the day of the teleseminar.

Lesson Number Five


Of course there are lots of other standard lessons in this copy about being sure to add bonuses, reinforcing your buyers' views of the industry etc but I want to point out one last simple copywriting strategy because this sale page is a perfect example.

Great marketers always use plain and ordinary everyday language just like the words used in this ad and this is targeting an entire industry of people who make a living using a college level vocabulary.

Notice Nader didn't use language like fiduciary or any other fancy words lawyers love to lord over regular folks.

This proves that great copy is simple to read no matter how educated the prospects are.

Never talk over your prospects head and always run your copy through a program like the Hemingway app and replace fancy words with simple words.

All the best,

Bond

P.S. Nader has a free newsletter you can get at www.jugularmarketing.com






Click Here To View Our Newsletter Archive	Click Here If You Want  To Be On My Newsletter Announcement List

Copyright © NoMax Publishing. All Rights Reserved

## The Few Products From Others That Get... The Halbert Seal of Approval

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2013/Halbert_Seal_of_Approval.htm

One of the most common questions Kevin I get is, "what's the best course for learning how to write really effective copy that sells?"

The answer depends on your goal.

If you hope to become one of the world's top copywriters, you will need to study many programs and read several books but it will also require a lot of experience and the process takes thousands of hours.

Our father had a meteoric rise to the top of the copywriting world but he had many years of door-to-door sales experience which was a major reason for his massive success.

It's like my first Google Ad getting a double digit click through rate, you have to factor in all the time I spent in marketing as part of what it took to accomplish such results and not the ten minutes it took me to write the ad.

However, if you are looking to write for small businesses or just want to sit down on Friday and have a profitable and effective ad by Monday, there are some great solutions.

Here is a breakdown of the programs we recommend, but keep in mind, this list doesn't include books, material no longer available and copywriting exercises you would need in order to compete with the A-list wordsmiths.

So, here we go...


John Carlton's Simple Writing System - John Carlton's copywriting course can be found on the desks of more professional copywriters than any other course bar none.

SWS will give you a you a great understanding of what goes into truly great copy and is highly recommended by us and almost everyone who has the system.

This is THE place to start if you are looking for a path to writing killer promotions.

You will also want to study material from guys like Gary Benecivenga or Clayton Makepeace but the SWS will put you on the right path.


Update: John and Stan are updating the Simple Writing System as I write and it will be back on the market in just a few days so click on the link below and sign up on their announcement list so you don't miss out.


Check out John's course HERE



Shortcut Copywriting Secretsï¿½ by Scott Haines - Of all our father's protï¿½gï¿½es to come and go, Scott writes copy more like Gary Halbert than any other person on the planet. His course includes exact, step-by-step instructions and exercises (from the Headline all the way through the P.S.) for learning how to write killer sales copy.

Thereï¿½s even a bonus section that will show you how to become a hot, in-demand, 6-figure-earning freelancer.

Basically, Scott has set down on paper my dadï¿½s copywriting teaching processï¿½ whichï¿½ is something pop never bothered to do all in one place.

This is one of the best copywriting courses ever developed and, relatively speaking, few people even know it exists. My dad has called Scott the best student he has ever had (aside from me, of course). In addition, he gave Shortcut Copywriting Secretsï¿½ the very first ever ï¿½Gary Halbert Seal Of Approvalï¿½ for an information product.

We are proud to be one of the few people you can get this great package from.



Check Out Scott's course Here




High-Speed Copywriting by David Garfinkel and Brian McLeod is the solution for people who want to sit down and have an ad by the end of the weekend which would normally cost at least $10,000-15,000 by a professional copywriter.

If you operate your business for even a week and can answer basic questions about your product or service, you can follow this simple program which is brilliantly constructed for people afraid of words or business owners who need an effective ad fast.

 

Check Out David and Brian's Course Here

 

All of these courses come with the Halbert Seal of Approval which means more than you might think because...

You would be stunned to learn how many copywriting courses we refuse to endorse or promote from talented big name marketers and we refuse for a good reason which is you.

Our livelihood relies on a solid reputation we can't tarnish by offering material which isn't right for you.

Yes, we get a commission for these courses but, WE chose them AFTER we became impressed by what's inside and as you can imagine, we can get an affiliate deal to promote any copywriting course available.

We have seen a lot of great copywriting systems get pulled off the market and these are the top courses which are available right now but hurry.

You never know when one will no longer become available because these are from working professional copywriters who make far more money writing and consulting than they do from the courses. In fact, Scottï¿½s Shortcut Copywriting Secretsï¿½ course has been officially out-of-print to the general public for over three years now.

So, if you fancy one or another, jump on them right now.

In fact, we have tossed in some killer Gary Halbert bonuses for a couple of them and these super bonuses are only available until we run out.

All of the courses come with a 100% iron-clad money back guarantee so the only way you can lose is if your competition gets a hold of one of these first.

Peace,

Bond  













Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List




Copyright ï¿½ 2009 Nomax Publishing Inc.  All Rights Reserved.

## “An Open Letter From Kevin Halbert To Anyone Who Wants Or Needs To Hire A Great Copywriter

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2011/hiringcopywriters.htm

“An Open Letter From Kevin Halbert To Anyone
Who Wants Or Needs To Hire A Great Copywriter"

If you are looking to hire a copywriter... what you are about to read might rub you the wrong way, but I believe in the end, you will come to appreciate what I'm going to reveal to you, because very few people talk about it in the naked light of day.

First. let me start off by saying, the way I'm going to show you how to go about hiring a copywriter is very close, if not exactly, how the biggest players in direct response advertising structure their business relationships. When I say players, I'm talking about ten and hundred million dollar relationships.

And the same should be true of entry level players, as you'll soon see.

A copywriter is the rain maker. He's that all important thread that connects your products and services with your prospects and makes the sale.


A Good Product Doesn't Sell Its Self,
Even Viagra And Apple Advertise


Don't ever expect the public to appreciate your product the way you do. Or that the world will flock to your door no matter what copywriter you hire.

You should view the copywriter as a hired gun, he's the one who brings in the money for your accountant to count.

He should be treated with the same respect as anyone who can actually make it rain and...

There is no such thing as a natural born copywriter!

It takes years of experience to become truly world class,

and...

Every great copywriter has something seriously wrong with him.

They are obsessive masochists, consuming an endless amount of dry information on copywriting, salesmanship and all manner of marketing. Yet they eat it up and can't ever seem to get enough. Like a golfer, they will live out their lives constantly perfecting their craft, always persuing a lower score. They may be far ahead of the pack but they won't stop until they shoot an 18... the learning never ends.


So unless there is something seriously wrong with you, I would strongly suggest that you are much better off hiring a copywriter than adding more work to your already busy day and delaying your turn around time to success.

If you are relatively new to copywriting, it will cost you more in time and lost revenue to study and write highly effective copy yourself.

And as I'll soon prove to you, even if you do write profitable copy, you'll kick yourself once you realize how much money you might be leaving on the table if you had done things just a little bit differently.

In a minute, I will show you how just a modest increase in conversion can more than double your profits. An increase so significant, it would have easily paid for a top copywriter's fee and put more bottom line money in your personal pocket than if you skipped hiring him and kept all the money for yourself.

Finding a copywriter is easy... very easy.

Finding a great one is a whole different story.

Recently I was invited into a $15,000.00 mastermind group and someone told me they get their copywriting done by hiring people on fiverr.com . Just in case you don't know, Fiverr is a site where you can hire people to do tasks for $5... incredible. Anyone can write an ad, few can write a good one, and even fewer can write a great one.


Warning: When you hire a discount copywriter you are doing him a favor, because he is using your money to test his copy.


Listen, no copywriter can look you straight in the eye, and guarantee you success. But if you are going to put your money down and take a spin, what kind of odds do you want to have?

Personally, I'd go for the machine that pays out more often than not.

I really wouldn't want to take a chance on an unknown who might miss the mark... making me ask myself if it was the ad or something else, and wondering if I should give up pursuing it any further, when a proven copywriter has a much better chance of knocking it out of the park on the first try.

Contrary to what you might think... just because you have money doesn't mean good copywriters need you... no my friend... you need a good copywriter to let you into his schedule. Sounds arrogant, it's just the simple truth and there isn't much use in pussy footing around it.

Copywriters sell their time, and good ones have more clients trying to hire them than they have time, so when it comes to hiring one, the copywriter must believe in the potential of the project and in most cases it must have the potential to have a big front end and... even better... a back end.

Because great copywriters usually have a line of people willing to pay their up front fee, they must choose wisely which client to take on. With all things being equal (everyone willing to pay his fee) the copywriter must now choose which client to take on. He is most likely to base his decision on three factors.

The first thing he is going to factor is how much money does the project potentially offer him above and beyond his fee. This includes how much of the gross profits the client is willing to share (usually anywhere from 1%-5%, but it can also vary greatly depending on things like profit margins and the amount of work involved).

Think about it. How would you choose your clients?


The writer will also consider the "back end" potential of the project, meaning is there a continued relationship with the client where he can write additional copy to sell more products and services to existing customers that he will also get a piece of.

It's much easier to write additional copy for a project he's already familiar with than trying to get up to speed on a new one.


The other big factor is whether the copywriter likes the subject matter. A copywriter may feel burnt out on a particular type of business, others will prefer writing for the same types of business because they already know what it takes to make sales.

TIP:

It's best to choose a copywriter who has had success writing for a particular niche and still loves writing about it. And never assume because a copywriter wrote a winner for one product or service, they can write a winner for another. Gary could write for just about any, but that is rare.

Another piece of advice:

Don't tell a copywriter money is no object. That's a sure sign money is a big object. And definitely don't tell him there is plenty of money but its all tied up right now, and then ask him if they can look past that and get started right away.

You should be cautious of a copywriter who goes along with these kinds of offers... it's a good sign he doubts his skills, and knowingly or not, he is going to be using your money to test out his theories.

The most expensive copywriter is one that doesn't bring in the money, and discount copywriters are the ones most likely to charge you the least for their services.

With everything riding on your business, many times even the most expensive copywriter, is the smallest risk and the most important investment you can make.

Any writer worth his salt is going to charge you 1/2 if not all of his fee up front and require the remainder just before delivery of the finished copy.

Don't expect a top copywriter to write for free for a larger part of the back end, because your project is a sure winner and has "a lot of potential." Never say he'll get paid his up front fee later with the profits he generates with his work. A good copywriter has been around the block a time or two … and have seen his share of “opportunities.” Please excuse the following double negative... but. This is not to say that some copywriters don't do something similar. Some A-List copywriters actually will make this type of deal, but the copywriter is making A LOT more money and is in such instances, is not being hired, but instead essentially own's a piece of the business.

Paying a copywriter up front shows him you are serious. And you want him to insist on you paying him up front. It shows that he has confidence in his abilities and will not waste his time on people who aren't serious players.

The highest paid copywriters in the world are paid by the people who fully understand their true value. And, the companies who pay the most money for copywriters make the most money in direct marketing... period.

Richard Stanton-Jones of Phillips Publishing once told Gary that nobody makes more money in that company than the copywriters, except, for the owner, Tom Phillips. The reason being: They are the ones that bring in the money.

A good copywriter knows his worth and any project can go tits up and taking on water for a million different reasons. None of which are under his control. A copywriter's only assurance he is going to get paid, is when he actually has the upfront money in his hands. Most importantly, it allows him to focus all of his attention on the project, and frees him up from wondering if he's going to get paid, and if he shouldn't have put his time and attention into something else.

If a client doesn't have to pay up front, neither he nor the copywriter feels a real obligation to follow through. A client who pays half up front has to look deep inside himself and measure his conviction that the project he is hiring the copywriter for is viable. It's easy to kid yourself and others when you have nothing to lose. Money always makes for a sober conversation.

Note:

Want to know how to really piss off a copywriter? Don't run the ad campaign he poured his heart and soul into. Like someone hired to build a plane, even though he got paid, he wants to see that sucker fly.

It only makes sense that a copywriter will work a lot harder for the client if he is getting a piece of the profits. Giving him a piece of the profits motivates him to get you more clients and more sales... he works harder to bring you more money so he can have a piece of it. Offering a piece of the profits can motivate a copywriter to strive for absolute perfection.

Think about it, if you only pay a copywriter a flat fee, he only has to sell one person... YOU.

All he has to do is take your first payment... go write you some good copy and come back to you with it to collect the other half.

And... when it comes to you, he's preaching to the crowd. You believe in what you are offering to the world with all of your being, and may not recognize the seemingly subtle differences that make or break an ad, website or other campaign.

How well the copy works in the real world doesn't matter as much to him if he knows he has already collected all the money he's ever going to get.

Don't get me wrong a good copywriter will work very hard to deliver you a powerful ad... but they will lack the total obsession that permeates every waking moment of their life.

This brings me to another point. A copywriter who is getting a piece of the profits is likely to "urge" you to do some things which might make you feel uncomfortable. This could be anything from making an extra long guarantee, using a headline with a very strong benefit. Or the way his copy sells, makes you feel like he is going to ruin your good reputation. I won't say you should give into everything the copywriter asks of you, but I would suggest that you give until it hurts.

Gary Halbert wrote this about his relationship with John Carlton:

His education with me included convincing famous celebrities to humiliate themselves on camera for obscure ads... telling rooms full of millionaire executives their ideas sucked (and making them like it)... saving corporations from bankruptcy with campaigns we had to whip up overnight (and then "con" the clients into running the ads even though it ran against every fiber of their being).” -Gary Halbert

One of the biggest risks a client can take is to make decisions based on their I.Q. , Education and Common Sense... instead of applying tested and proven marketing techniques.

Moving on...

If you are lucky... your copywriter is going to take a walk on you

Like most human beings, all clients want the copy written yesterday. After all, it's a very naked feeling to put the money out there and have to sit and wait for the copy to come in. But patience is very important when waiting for a copywriter to deliver the goods. The bulk of copy isn't written at the table. A copywriter is working hardest when he looks like he isn't working at all. All his hooks, headlines, closes, story telling and "reasons why" come after he's absorbed a vast amount of facts and information, and is now letting it percolate in his mind. Flashes of brilliance come to him when he is doing such mindless things as driving or taking a walk.

When he first gets to writing, he will spill his guts onto the page and walk away. He will walk away for an evening, a day, perhaps two. This is a very important part of the process, because it allows him forget a good deal of what he wrote and re-visit the copy with "fresh eyes", giving him the chance to more clearly see if the copy still makes sense from the perspective of a new reader. This is the time when he will be able tell if he was following a natural flow and thought process.

Another key to writing copy is to have your ideal customers read the copy. Input from customers can point out obvious flaws and omissions that are hard for the writer and client (you) to identify, because both of you are too close to the subject.

If you want to speed the writing process along, provide the writer with all the research he needs. This includes the competition’s marketing, your past ads (and their results), research studies and books written on the subject. Don't forget that the ad may be based on someone's personal story. Tell him your story, your customers' story, the inventor's story, the conspiracy story, the tragedy, the triumph. Give him anything that might be even slightly relevant.

A note on editing a copywriter's work. There is a famous story of when my dad was told that an ad he wrote for a client failed. And my dad asked the client to show him the ad they ran. Then he informed the client that the ad they ran wasn't the ad he wrote, they had changed it.

He told them...

"You've Spray Painted The Sistine Chapel" - Gary Halbert

Another common thing he used to say was...

"Don't even change one fucking comma of my copy" - Gary Halbert

David Ogilvy said...


"Any fool can write a bad advertisement, but it takes
a genius to keep his hands off a good one."


Copywriters are brought in to do something not even a fraction of one percent of the population can do. They are not interns or even employees, and standing over their shoulder as they write, will quickly end the relationship.

The best copywriter's time is monopolized by clients who afford them the most creative freedom, and the clients are very often richly rewarded for it. John Carlton only agreed to write for the golf and self-defense markets because they gave him carte blanche, and he blazed a trail for years that the competition, taken by surprise, could only try to imitate in a feeble attempt to keep up.

If you and the copywriter have a difference of opinion on the direction the promotion should take, don't dwell on it for too long. What you should do at this point is run a meaningful A/B split test. That is, an apples for apples test (from the same pool of names/prospects), comparing what you think is the best approach against that of the copywriter's. Your test, if possible, should be to a list of people no smaller than two thousand names (1000 for your version and 1000 of the copywriter's suggestions).

As the Legendary Claude Hopkins said:


"This puts men on their mettle. All guesswork is eliminated.
Every mistake is conspicuous. One quickly loses his conceit by learning
how often his judgment errs – often nine times out of ten."


When the copywriter is in for a piece of the action he is less likely to shine you on, and is more likely to persuade you to operate within the realm of reality, and do what actually works. You may look at him all the time wondering whose side is he on. But when the money comes tumbling in you'll look upon him as one of the most valuable business relationships you have, and see him for the rain maker he truly is.

There's a very important hazard you must be careful about when working with a copywriter, it is a common mistake a few business owners make. You see, after a copywriter creates a winning campaign and everything is humming along nicely, after some time has passed, someone will come up to you and ask you why you are still sending money to someone who did work for you over a year ago. And you'll start to wonder yourself, and you'll forget he doesn't work for you, he works with you. And unless he's written an ad like "The Lazy Man's Way to Riches" the promotion is eventually going to die and you are going to have to either create an updated promotion, go after a different 3%, sell to a new market entirely, or get a job.

(I'm going to tell you about the 3% shortly).

Short changing a copywriter will always get out in the back channels.You would not believe how quickly this chain of communication works.

A copywriter will never tell a potential client they know of their bad reputation, and would rather write for the competition. The copywriter won't give them a clue about what they know or where they heard it. They will simply avoid them. They will suddenly be too busy to fit the client into their schedule or just won't pick up the phone. Leaving the client with only B-List copywriters to choose from, copywriters who will be glad to use their client's money and time to test their copy.

Don't be like some, and become a one hit wonder. Take care of your copywriter... he takes care of you. The reverse is also true, if a copywriter stiffs a client and leaves him high and dry, the world will know.

OK, as promised I'm going to show how an increase in response from 1% to 1.3% can, in some cases, more than double your profits.

Let's do some arithmetic Gary Halbert style.

With most paid advertising the product or service owner pays someone to get people's attention and direct it towards your product or service. The person pointing potential customers in your direction is going to charge you on a "PER" basis.

Per:

Month

Circulation

Letter mailed

Endorsement

Name

Sale

Click

Inquiry

Impression

Flyer

(even search engine optimization has it's costs)

The very important math any good direct response marketer measures is the ROI (Return On Investment). And obviously NET PROFIT.

What you are trying to measure is how much money you had to spend on advertising and how much money you got back in return after expenses.

(By the way this is why info products are what everyone wants to sell. Because it costs little to nothing to reproduce and deliver.)

Let's say you spend $1,000 to advertise your product to 1000 people and you convert 1% of those people into buyers of your $200 product.

1% of 1000 people = 10 (customers)

10 customers X your product ($200) = $2,000

That means for every dollar you spend on marketing you are taking in two. Now for this example that extra dollar you got back isn't pure profit. You have costs (also known as contribution to overhead), whatever they may be.

Where was I, oh yeah, OK so we've taken in an extra dollar for everyone we've sent out, but again that extra dollar isn't pure profit we've got costs such as:

Web Hosting

Product production

Shipping

Merchant account fees

E-mail delivery

Pay Per Click

Pay Per Impression

Letter shop costs

customer service

Rent

Payroll

etc.

And the list can go on ad nauseum. But for simplicity sake lets just say when all is said and done it costs you $75 to service each of those 10 customers. That means those ten customers cost $750 total in delivering whatever we have sold them.

Let's see where we're at. We took in $2,000 total after spending $1,000. And we've got $750 in fulfillment.

On paper that looks like

$2,000 Gross income

-$1,000 Initial Advertising Investment

=$1,000 left over

Now we've got $750 in fulfillment, so that looks like

$1,000

-$750

= $250 profit


That is, for every $1,000 we spent we took in $2,000 gross. But what really matters is we made $250 profit.

Put another way. For every $1 we spent we made 25 cents (25% net profit).

Now let's imagine we call in our rock star copywriter and he ups response to a measly 1.3%, copywriters have routinely been known to up conversion several hundred percent. But that entirely depends on how bad the copy was to begin with.

Lets get back to that puny .3% increase in response. Truth be told the copywriter is increasing response by 30%

That means we are now getting a 1.3% customer conversion rate.

The key point to remember here is we are still only paying $1000 and we are now getting 13 people to buy instead of only 10.

Lets see how it looks on paper now.

13 customers X $200 (purchase price) = $2,600

Now that's not all profit, we still need to deduct the cost of the product and fulfillment like we did last time.

13 customers

X $75 (product cost & fulfillment)

= $975

Ok lets see where we're at with this new 1.3% response rate.

Now we are taking in $2,600 gross instead of only $2,000.

But $1,000 was spent on advertising so that works out like this:

$2,600 Gross Income

-$1,000 Advertising

$1,600 Gross Profit

Now we have to deduct the cost of the product and fulfillment, so:


$1,600 Gross Profit

-$975 Fullfillment Costs

$625 Net Profit

Ok, so for the same $1,000 spent we are now making $625 Net Profit

Another way to say it is, for every dollar spent you not only got your dollar back but you also covered all of your costs and made 62.5 cents left over (a 62.5% profit for the same one thousand dollars invested).

Now in the first example we made $250 over the advertising and fulfillment costs for a net profit of 25 cents (25% profit) for every dollar invested.

That means if a copywriter can boost your conversion rate by just .3%, an increase of (a 30 percent increase in gross sales) it would, in this case, more than double your profits. to be more precise it would increase your profits by 250%.

Well, not exactly, because you are a smart cookie and you've thought ahead and you want your star copywriter to take your call while he's off on a year long tour of the world, trying to regain his sanity. So you've been kind and generous enough to give him 5% of gross sales. That means he is going to receive $130.00 for every $2,600 you take in.

Ok, yet again, let's see where we're at. So the copywriter bumped up response by 30%. Instead of making $250 for our luke warm copy we are now making $650, but we are paying him $130 in commissions. So now we are down to $520, (still more than double our profit!).

Truth be told you would actually make more than 200% profit because some of the monthly costs involved with product fullfillment are fixed, like rent, web hosting, and in some cases customer service. These costs don't increase considerably when you increase sales. This is why monthly turn around speed is so important.

It also proves that the longer you take figuring out how to write the best copy, the more money you leave on the table.

Now if you are nit picky, when it comes to calculating your profits from writing your own copy compared to hiring an A-List pro, you've probably not forgotten about the up front fee. Truth be told, neither have I. In the beginning the upfront fee feels very significant, but when you are up and running with a hot campaign it becomes increasingly smaller in the distance.

When you are in the middle of a hot campaign all you will be able to think about is how, for every dollar you send out, a $1.50 net profit comes back, and you will be solely focused on trying to turn the crank faster and faster.

The icing on the cake. Now not only are you growing your business at an exponential rate, but now you are also packing 30% more people on to your customer list. Any savvy marketer will tell you it costs you literally ten times as much to sell something to a new customer than to an existing one. All things being equal, you should pick a business venture that has a larger back end. And in businesses that have enduring relationships with their customers, most of the money isn't made on the first sale.

Now you can see how small increases in conversion can lead to huge increases in profit.

This is the simple secret that every successful direct response marketer knows. And it is why they NEVER STOP TESTING.

That's because they know seemingly small changes can make a big difference to their bank account. And especially when you've got a finite list of HOT LINE leads, you want to make the most of your marketing to them.

As I said before, the biggest mailers pay the most for copywriters, because ultimately, even after they pay the copywriters their fees and royalties, the clients make more money FOR THEMSELVES in the end.

Another way of putting it is to say...

Great Copywriters Sell You Money At A Discount!

So, what makes a great copywriter?

It's not how much YOU like him or his work. It's their ability to effectively communicate with your prospects.

In most cases you are not your customer, and relatively speaking, all ads fail when they are selling to new prospects. What I mean by this is that if an ad converted 3% of the prospects to a sale, that means 97% percent (the vast majority) didn't buy.

It's like panning for gold. And identifying this 3% of your prospects, and knowing what makes them different.... is EVERYTHING!

A great copywriter is able to do what I call....GETTING IN PARALEL... with the customer. A more common way of putting it is... getting in his shoes... or ..... getting in his head. That means knowing how he lives...where he's been... where he wants to go... and what he believes... in order to "speak his language" the language of the 3%.

That means knowing what a potential customer needs to hear in order to be sold and how it needs to be said.


Does your copywriter understand your customers?

Can he get in their shoes and speak their language?

Do you know what good copy looks like?



Here's a simple test... take your ad and show it to some ideal prospects and ask them what they think of it. If they say its a "good" , "great" or "OK" ad... it has failed miserably, and they are only giving you lip service.

A good ad makes the reader say...

“Wow, where can I buy that!”

A good ad produces sales not compliments or awards.

This is no easy task and shouldn't be taken lightly. Remember I said in most cases you aren't your customer. To prove it to you, I want you to do me a favor. I want you to imagine calling up your customers and striking up a conversation with them, and after you start to get a feel for who they are, I want you to imagine how many of them you would be willing to spend the weekend alone with. Probably not many.

But knowing why you wouldn't spend much personal time with them can help you understand your customer better. To young, too old, male, female, single, married, religious, atheist, lazy, greedy, political, smart, stupid, living in the moment, thinking long term, lonely, in love, thin, fat, insecure, giant ego, competitive, charitable, city slicker, hillbilly, country, classical, rock and roll, and on and on.

Many smart marketers reach out to their customers to understand them on a deeper level, and in the end it really pays off.

A good copywriter understands the customer and just how to TALK (write) to them.

I digress...

The most important indicator of a great copywriter is how much money his ads make compared to others, perhaps someone else you've hired before who only got mild results .

There are a lot of writers who will talk of their runaway blockbuster ad campaigns that brought in an avalanche of cash, when in reality, they wouldn't recognize a good ad if it bit them on the ass, let alone be able to write one.

The other way to know who is a good copywriter is to be well connected in the business to those in the know, who would never ruin their own good reputation endorsing a nobody just because the novice copywriter is a nice guy.

And lastly, great copywriters usually have years of experience studying great copy that speaks to the target audience.

If you are interested in hiring Bond or myself to write your copy for you. Or you would like us to help you find a copywriter, because you have no way to confirm a copywriter's abilities; aren't well connected in the business, or can't tell the subtle differences between mediocre and great copy, write or call us and we'll be glad to try and help you out.

Peace,

Kevin Halbert

The Prince's Prince of Print

(323)816-7859

kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com

PS

 

 

 





	


Beware of copywriters that have a college education in advertising or marketing. 99% of people teaching college students don't know a thing about real world direct marketing, and shouldn't be allowed to teach others theory. No successful direct marketer would ever encourage an up and commer to get their marketing education at a traditional college. And a guy wearing a cheap suit and a toupee who repeatedly shows up on late night infomercials will outsell any professor of marketing with a doctorate from the most prestigious college in the country.

You are much better off hiring a professor from the psychology department or a pick-up artist... I'm not kidding.


 




 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2011 Nomax Publishing Inc  All Rights Reserved.

## Rolls Royce Letter. Can you Guess

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2006/rolls_royce_letter.htm

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

   This is another of my semi-famous "Can-You-Guess?" newsletters.

   What you are about to read is a letter I wrote to sell Rolls Royce motorcars. It was mailed to people who owned late model Cadillacs, Lincolns, Mercedes' and other luxury cars.

   Your job is to read this letter and then e-mail me at nosexgary@aol.com and tell me if you think the letter was a winner, a loser, or just mediocre. Here's the letter.





Dear Friend,

  Please take a look at the photograph I am sending you with this letter.

  What you are looking at is a picture of a Rolls Royce Silver Shadow I can sell you so cheaply you will find it hard to believe! Why is this car so inexpensive? Actually, there are three reasons and each of them is equally important: First of all, I am not a "used car dealer" in the usual sense of the word. No. What I do is specialize in absolutely nothing but pre-owned Rolls Royces and I have developed a remarkable way to get these cars into the country at a cost so low it will take your breath away!

  And secondly, if you so desire, I have worked out a way to finance cars over a period of four to five years at a very favorable rate of interest.

  And thirdly, I am not overwhelmingly greedy. That's important. You see, many people in the car business are only in it for the money, but that's not true with me. And, as a matter of fact, it's not true of anybody that is really in love with the Rolls Royce motor car.

  A Rolls Royce is different. It is more than just a car, it is a legend. When you drive one, everybody knows you are special.You are admired by women and envied by men. Quite frankly, there is nothing else in the entire world that will give you the instant status as sitting behind the wheel of your very own "Queen of the Road."

   Let's face it. As the owner of a late model automobile, you already know the value of owning and driving a fine motor car, so my question to you is:

   Why Not Go All The Way? With the unbelievably low price I can offer plus the 100% financing I can arrange, it might even be cheaper to drive a Rolls Royce than the car you now have!

   Please call me as soon as you read this letter. Right now, I only have five of these wonderful bargains and they won't last long! My number is 000-000-0000.

   Sincerely,

   Randal Davis Jones

P.S.       A Rolls Royce lives forever. The            one you drive today could be            driven by your grandchildren.

P.S.S.     There is another "mystery reason"            why I can sell these Rolls Royces            so cheaply, but I would prefer            not to reveal it until we talk on            the phone. Thank you.

 

    Okay. That's it. Short, but sweet. How did it do? You tell me. E-mail your pathetic guess to me right away!

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S.

	
Do you like these "Can-You-Guess?" newsletters? Let me know.

P.S.S.	Do you want to hire Gary Halbert? Click here to read "Modesty Personified".

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

 

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Rolls Royce Letter Revealed

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2006/the_answer_to_the_rolls_royce_letter.htm



## How You Should Start Everyday For The Rest Of Your Life!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/aslk_start_every_day.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Nobody ever asks me who the best copywriter in the world is anymore.

My answer is a foregone conclusion.

However, I am now often asked, "Who is the world's second-best copywriter?" And, although there are a handful of world-class contenders, on an all-round basis, I'd have to give the nod to my friend, John Carlton because he is at the top of the heap when it comes to being...

A Hard-Boiled, Go-Get-The-Job-Done,
Grab-Them-By-The-Throat, And
Force-Them-To-Order Copywriter!

John almost makes a fetish out of being low profile. Even though he's a world-class copywriter... and... someone who makes millions of dollars for his clients... he is NOT someone who chooses to be on the book market or seminar circuit. He's not somebody who goes out and tries to become famous. He's like a "quiet trade secret" for those few of us insiders who are privileged to know him... and... he's one of those people you'll rarely ever get the opportunity to hear his advice.

Like most of the best writers, John is a complex man. He loathes publicity and limelight yet, he performs on stage as a scorching lead guitarist for local bar bands as a hobby.

John scrambled from a loving, working-class home in tiny Cucamonga, California. He was the first of his tribe to attend college and he has lived all over the country working as a cartoonist, fisherman, dishwasher, novelist and executive. He's proud of his white-trash, blue-collar roots. "We were the people you cherished as your friends and neighbors," John says.

He tried many different lifestyles as he was growing up. John was lucky enough to catch the heyday of Beatlemania, the emerging pop-culture of television, hippydom, the sexual revolution, Watergate, the rise of importance of Silicon Valley, Los Angeles decadence during the '80s... and... most importantly... the radical changes in advertising that came with computers, cable television, video, and the absorption of junk mail into everyday life. John's involvement with these events is critical to you being able to understand the depth of his experience and knowledge as it relates to advertising and marketing.

John has combined his degree in Psychology from UC Davis, his passion for history, his wicked sense of humor and his youth spent on the edge of Bohemia into a powerful writing talent and a "feel" for what makes people tick.

On today's mean streets of marketing, he is truly the "best-of-the-best."

His assault on the advertising world started with an old school education in direct mail. Typing on an ancient IBM Selectric, crafting camera-ready production work with hot wax and an x-acto knife.

Then WHAM! Everything he knew became obsolete as technology exploded. However, like every world-class craftsman, John stayed immersed in educating himself. He's read hundreds of books about writing and advertising. He personally sought out and learned from the great men of the industry: He went from being the high-paid, hot-shot freelancer Los Angeles agencies snuck in the back door (to write the pieces they couldn't get their staff to pull off) to writing on the inside with marketing wizards like Jay Abraham and established copywriters like Jim Rutz.

Circa 1988, I invited John to handle the big desk chores at my Hollywood office on Sunset Boulevard. During our long friendship, John has accompanied me on marketing adventures that have changed the very nature of advertising forever.

His education with me included convincing famous celebrities to humiliate themselves on camera for obscure ads... telling rooms full of millionaire executives their ideas sucked (and making them like it)... saving corporations from bankruptcy with campaigns we had to whip up overnight (and then "con" the clients into running the ads even though it ran against every fiber of their being). We put on lavish seminars where people happily paid $10,000+ just to glean a few nuggets of advice while John and I ranted and babbled and goofed off without a plan. Being enslaved to insane deadlines. Re-inventing modern advertising for cable and the Internet. We were among the very first to do infomercials, to advertise on the 'Net and make videos a marketing industry.

John's had fun, brushes with death, helped small men accumulate fortunes and watched helplessly as rich corporations came tumbling down from their own idiocy. There's no better way to learn how the world works than to roll up your sleeves and get filthy with experience like this. He's been stupid, smart, cursed, lucky, broke, well off, mocked, worshiped, hated and loved.

And, he's learned something from every damned minute of it.

John is a master of what I call "muscle writing." He can write a brilliant ad on any subject no matter how complex, technical or difficult. Yet, he makes each ad easy to understand. Also, he writes it in such a way, it's as impossible to stop reading as an Ian Fleming or a John D. MacDonald novel.

He can identify and relate to every type of customer... and... he can sell to them. In 21 years as a prolific writer, John has had a hand in selling nearly every product or service used by human beings. His accomplishments include promoting an unlikely sex manual for the conservative Rodale Press... and... John's sales letter for that manual has been unbeatable for three years... despite... constant attempts by other copywriters to write a different sales letter that will pull in a higher percentage of orders.

Another of John's achievements is his excellent promotion of a right wing financial doomsday letter. John's "Package of Paranoia" mailed successfully for seven years. (By the way, had he been hired by a liberal publisher, he would have written a sales letter from their point of view which would have worked just as well.)

Then, there's the dozens of how-to-fight videos from real-life street fighters and Navy SEALS... which... has earned millions from a tiny, miniscule niche market.

Plus reams of other ads and letters written for shrinks, people looking for mates, new computer products, chiropractors, diet programs, precious metal investing, fund raisers and personal letters which have motivated people to change their lives.

When John's ads run in magazines (which often fill three pages of copy) the entire look of the publication quickly changes as other advertisers catch on... and... begin to imitate... his hard-hitting writing style that is so effective at raking in profits.

His direct mail sales letters have long been used all over the world as study guides for other writers. In fact, many copywriters (including me) secretly come to John for marketing help with their projects. You see, John has a soft spot for helping people... because... no one helped him when he was struggling in the early years. Once I heard this remark from John:

"It's amazing how people can so readily crush someone's dreams."

So true and to the point.

But, as John also remarked, "The lesson is, don't look for anyone to cheer your success until after you've arrived. Trust only those who believed in you when things were tough. They are the gems who will brighten your life."

College-educated, street-trained, honed by years of intense work in the trenches, John Carlton has quietly earned his place as one of the best copywriters on the planet. While his demand for privacy keeps him out of the limelight, in 1998 alone, he turned down over $300,000 worth of jobs from well-known marketers. He prefers to work with a handful of private clients, though on occasion, he will take on new work.

He Is Truly A Man
Who Cherishes His Laziness!

His fees have caused un-initiated clients to choke... but... the results of his ads and mailing packages often rake in multi-millions in profits for his clients.

So what? Why should you care about all this? How does all this fit into a newsletter you read because you want to suck more fungolas out of the world for your own evil purposes?

You'll soon find out. But, first, I have to tell you a little about another of my friends, Joe Polish.

Joe is 30 years old. He had a difficult childhood surrounded by dysfunctional, drug-addicted, impoverished people. By sheer force of will, he overcame all that and enrolled in New Mexico State College in 1986. He worked various odd jobs until he finished college in 1989. Then, he returned to Phoenix and opened a carpet cleaning business. For two years he floundered, barely keeping the business alive. Then, in 1992, he read one of my newsletters. It was, I think, the one about the "Halbert Index." He started using some of my marketing techniques and turned his business around.

Later, he began to study other marketing gurus like Dan Kennedy and Jay Abraham and his business grew even more.

In 1994, Joe formed Polish & Burke which rapidly morphed into Piranha Marketing with a mission to teach other carpet cleaners the marketing secrets he had learned.

Piranha Marketing did 1/4 million the first year, 1/2 million the second and is now pulling in over a million per year... and... still growing.

One of the deals he offers his subscribers is membership in his "Tape-Of-The-Month Club." This is where he interviews a different expert every month on some aspect of business or marketing.

It quickly became apparent these tapes were not only valuable to carpet cleaners but... to anyone... interested in increasing their bottom-line.

Joe's interviewed me, Dan Kennedy, Michael Gerber and a couple dozen other people and the wisdom on these tapes is invaluable. It costs $18.53 per month to be a member of Joe's Tape-Of-The-Month Club... for which... you get the tape of his current interview... as well as... the written transcript.

Well, recently, Joe interviewed my friend John Carlton... and... it is the most electric and revealing interview (even better than his interview with me) Joe has ever done. In fact, John was pouring forth so much valuable info... that... for the first time... Joe's tape of the month consisted of two tapes... and... you ought to listen to those tapes.

When I listened to them, I was reminded of our exciting times together when John and I were working feverishly on "Operation Moneysuck" which is a concept John explains brilliantly on the tapes.  John also gets into...

x 	Why you should think of yourself as a "sales detective" instead of just a copywriter...
x	How to identify the real hot buttons which make people buy...
x	His work strategies that let him turn out killer sales letters and ads time-after-time...
x	How you start writing copy by "circling the desk..."
x 	How he created a sensational "sex book ad" for the conservative Rodale Press...
x	How he created the "amazing, one-legged golfer" package...
x 	His "human computer" stock wizard package...
x	How to use the "shortcut" of endorsed mailings...
x	How to create headlines that go straight for the jugular...
x 	The power of the blow-up photo of the microscopic dust mite...
x	How to create sales by pissing off your customers...
x	His "lipstick-on-the-collar" concept...
x	How mega-power guarantees pump up sales...
x	What kind of free presents you should be giving your customers...
x	Why his headlines are so long...
x	Why having a "swipe file" is essential...
x	Why you need to reach for the outrageous limits of every emotion including guilt, outrage, fear, greed and suspicion.

I'm gonna stop now. There's so much on these tapes, I could spend another couple of hours trying to describe them all to you. You need to listen to these and...

I've Arranged For You To
Have A "Free Listen" To Them!

What you do is, you call Joe Polish's office (1-800-275-2643) and sign up for his Tape-Of-The-Month Club. Tell the office you're one of my subscribers and they will immediately send you the two tapes of Joe's interview with John Carlton. These are yours to keep... no matter what.

After you listen to this interview, if you don't want any more of the tapes of Joe's monthly interviews, simply call his office and tell them you want to un-sign-up. (I just made up that word.) If you do that, they won't send you any more tapes... but... you still get to keep the tapes of John's interview... and... you won't be out a single dime.

Another thing: If I were you... and... I had a need for a serious, world-class copywriter, I'd try to get John Carlton. You can e-mail him at...

cucarifa@aol.com

Now listen: Neither John nor Joe have any idea I'm writing this. I don't get a penny in commissions if you join Joe's Tape-Of-The-Month Club. I am making a strong recommendation here with no financial motive whatsoever. I want you to have the tapes of Joe's interview with John simply because...

They Are So Damn Good!

So there.

By the way, in case you're out of the country and can't call Piranha Marketing's 800 number, the direct line is...

1-602-858-0008

Onward.

Back in the late '60s, I read a novel. I can't remember the title but, I'll never forget though the story. It was about one college professor who was jealous of another professor who had become rich and famous by writing a series of "how-to-become-a-success" type books.

The first professor decided he would discredit the second guy. His plan was, he would read one of the self-help books, follow its instructions to the letter... and then... since he knew none of these instructions would actually work... he would write a book exposing the "how-to" book author as a fraud.

So, he read one of the books, followed all the instructions... and... unfortunately for him...

His Life Started
Getting Better!

t  Setting goals did work.

t  Keeping a positive mental attitude did work.

t  Visualizing himself as the improved self he desired to be did work.

t  Planning his work and working his plan did work.

Etc., etc., etc.

Ain't that a bitch? What's the world coming to? You set out to discredit a man and then discover his advice is actually helping you!

Anyway, I've got another book in front of me now titled, If I Knew Then What I Know Now. In this book, CEO's and other smart executives share wisdom they wish they'd been told 25 years ago. It's pretty good. Here's one very short observation from page 144 by a columnist named Whit Hobbs:

"Success is waking up in the morning, whoever you are, however old or young, and bounding out of bed because there's something out there that you love to do, that you believe in, that you're good at -- something that's bigger than you are, and you can't hardly wait to get at it again today."

What a great observation.

Listen: I'll tell you something: I teach people all about how to do a mathematical, marketing regression analysis, how to access Nasdaq Level II quotes, how to massage complex statistics, how to create engineered reciprocity, how to profitably navigate the Internet with their PC's, and an endless variety of other complex, highly-technical shit.

But you know what? The really important wisdom... the stuff which will really change your life... is simple. In fact, it's so simple, it could rightly be considered downright corny.

I've been thinking: What if I were on my death bed? What if I had only a few minutes left? What if God told me to use those last few minutes to tell someone the single most important thing I knew? What if it had to be the one thing... that... in my opinion... would enhance their life more than anything else I could ever tell them?

What would it be? Something about love? Loyalty? Marketing or perhaps spirituality? Exercise, study habits, nutrition, fitness, relationships? WHAT?

Nope. It wouldn't be any of that stuff. If it could only be one thing, here is what I would teach you:

 



How You Should
Start Every Day For
The Rest Of Your Life!

1.	Set your alarm clock to go off 10 minutes earlier  than usual.
2.	The first thing, after you get up, is to immediately remake your bed.
3.	Go to the kitchen, pour yourself a glass of water and drink it all.
4.	Go to the bathroom, take care of "business," brush your teeth, wash the sleep out of  your face and eyes and brush and comb your hair.
5.	Next, put on some exercise clothes like sweatpants, a sweatshirt and sneakers.
6.	Leave the house immediately and take a 20-minute walk.
7.	As soon as you get back, woof down a nutritionally-dense protein drink made by mixing the contents of a packet of Myoplex, Met-RX or Lean Body with eight ounces of fat-free milk and a banana.
8.	 Scarf down a packet of vitamins and minerals like Dr. Julian Whitaker's "FORWARD PLUS."
9.	Take a shower.
10.	Dress in fresh, crisp clothes and go about your day.

 

Pretty simple stuff, isn't it? But, I'll tell you this: If you will do this every day in 1999, it will create a more positive change in your life than anything else you can do.

This regiment, although simple on the surface, has profound and somewhat complex and far-reaching psychological ramifications.

May I explain?

Thank you.

1.  Set your alarm to go off 10 minutes earlier than usual. By getting a 10-minute earlier start, you tend to remove the "urgency" many of us experience as soon as we wake up. You'll feel less harried, less hurried and a bit more peaceful.

2.  The first thing, after you get up, is to immediately remake your bed. If you don't do this, you will be starting your day... instantly... creating an "undone chore" which will nag at the back of your mind for the rest of the day. If you do do this, you will start the day without having added a single, niggling little thing to your "to do" list.

3.  Go to the kitchen, pour yourself a glass of water and drink it all. You do NOT drink enough water. Nobody in America does. Water is the elixir of elixirs. It flushes toxins out of your body, provides an environment which lets your electrolytes and all other aspects of your biochemistry function at maximum efficiency.

4.  Go to the bathroom, take care of "business," brush your teeth, wash the sleep out of your face and eyes and brush and comb your hair. You're getting ready for battle: The battle to have a good day. Doing all the above will wake you up a little, freshen you up a bit and "set-you-up" to get going.

5.  Next, put on some exercise clothes like sweatpants, a sweatshirt and sneakers. Make this a ritual. You are dressing for battle: An assault on the forces of negativism.

6.  Leave the house immediately and take a 20-minute walk. You're outside, you're breathing fresh air, you're getting your circulation going, you're becoming more mentally alert. Some of the fog begins to lift from your mind. You begin to notice your environment, see the colors of the fall foliage, the bloom of a spring flower, the dew on the grass on a summer morning, the untrodden snow in mid-winter. NOTE: This is NOT exercise. This is a loosening up; a "defogging" of your mind and allowing your body to gently warm up for its daily tasks.

7.  As soon as you get back, woof down a nutritionally-dense protein drink made by mixing the contents of a packet of Myoplex, Met-RX or Lean Body with eight ounces of fat-free milk and a banana. This will infuse your body with nearly all the vitamins, minerals, electrolytes, and other good stuff to help your body and mind function at peak throughout the day.

8.  Scarf down a packet of vitamins and minerals like  Dr. Julian Whitaker's "FORWARD PLUS." More insurance you're getting the minimum (at least) ingredients your body needs to run efficiently.

9.  Take a shower. Part of the ritual of getting ready to battle the day.

10.  Dress in fresh, crisp clothes and go about your day. Ritual completed. You're loosened up, oxygenated, clean, crisp, nourished, starting your day with no added baggage.

 

Is this the perfect way to start a day? No, but it's a very good way. Maybe someday, after your 20-minute walk, you'll extend it to some power-walking, a jog or a run. After your roadwork, maybe you'll pump a little iron.

But, that's for the future. Maybe. Don't think about it now. Just give the above routine a shot for seven weeks and I guarantee your life will be better. Much better. It may sound funny and incredibly simplistic but, that's the advice I'd give you if I could only give you one piece of advice. It's based on years of exhaustive personal research on my part... that proves... the best way to get a good day started is to...

Get Up And
Get Going!

Here's a few odds and ends: My Viagra research in Brazil went very well. There's only a handful of Americans in Rio and they are not particularly eager to encourage other Americans to go there. Neither am I.

There's a website I think some of you (certainly not all of you) should visit. It's www.realdoll.com. These people make synthetic women. Not blow-up dolls, but rather, these things are extremely realistic, "real" fake women. Howard Stern had one on his show. They sell for $6,000+ and the shipping cost alone is $700.00. These dealybops are so realistic, they've got me thinking: If this is available now...

Just Think What You'll
Be Able To Buy Five
Years From Now!

Still pining for your ex-wife? Send in a photo of her and an audio tape of her voice and they'll make a new and improved, more "user friendly" version of her for you.

Fantasizing about Claudia Schiffer, Pamela Lee or the current Playmate of the month? Custom-order her from someplace like www.realdoll.com five years from now and I bet they'll replicate her for you complete with programming so she will respond only to your voice with the type of moaning and groaning you want to hear: "Oh baby, you're so big!" Or, "Oh, my God! It's never been like this for me before!"

Real relationships are rapidly reaching redundancy. Why put up with a whining bitching mate when you can have all the good stuff with none of the bad?

WARNING: This is an X-rated website. So don't go there if you will be offended. On the other hand, if you do visit the site, be sure to check out the FAQ's (Frequently Asked Questions).

You know, the truth is, pornography is often at the forefront of technology. The real reason I want you to visit this site is not to get some libidinous thrill. The real reason is, of all the sites I've seen on the 'Net, this is the one that has most amazed me.

You'll see.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


P.S.	God bless you and MERRY CHRISTMAS and HAPPY HANUKKAH! Take care of yourself. Be safe during the holidays and have a joyous New Year.

As ever, Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## It Was A Vertitable Orgy Of Ideas

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/aakj_veritable_orgy.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

It was a veritable orgy of ideas!

I'm talking, of course, about the first official Sir Gary of Halbert brainstorming session. Remember how I promised that 13 of the world's best minds would work on ideas and promotions sent in by my subscribers? Well, as it turned out, there were 27 world-class minds involved in the event!

It really worked out neat. Paulette and I rented Sheraton Miramar's "conference bungalow" for two days and it turned out to be the absolute perfect place to hold a brainstorming session. For starters, the Sheraton Miramar is a beautiful, stately old hotel by the sea in Santa Monica that has been featured in several movies. And secondly, the conference bungalow itself was utterly charming. We had the whole room wired for sound and, on both days, for lunch, we had a deli buffet on the patio on the ocean side of the hotel.

It sure was good of me to spring for all of this, wasn't it?

Actually, it was my pleasure and it was a genuine honor to interact with all those brilliant men and women. And besides, as you already know, I am truly a Prince Of A Guy.

So anyway, here are some thoughts that have stuck in my mind as a result of that two-day conference:

THE MOST COMMON FLAW of all the ads and DM pieces that were submitted is that many of them were difficult (some were borderline impossible!) to read. You wouldn't believe it: over and over we examined submissions that had the sales message typed or type-written on a slime green background or some other off-the-wall color that created a near terminal case of eyestrain.

Listen Dammit: Use Black
Type On White Or Yellow
Paper And Don't Mess With
Any Other Color
Combinations!

DON'T SEND A LETTER to do a man's job. Hark unto me: It has been said you can sell anything by direct mail. Well, that's sort of true. But really, when you're selling data processing services or some other high-ticket technical item or service, you can use a letter to pave the way but, at some point, you have to sub in a real live sales person.

Look: One organization sent in a direct mail package designed to sell utility companies on becoming part of an advertising network of syndicated statement stuffer ads. It's a good idea, a darned good idea, but how many utilities are there? Probably only a few hundred in all the U.S. And, since the universe is so small and each "sale" represents so much loot, the transaction must be consummated by a human.

You know, it seems to me that some organizations are "hiding behind their mail" because they're uncomfortable about making sales calls.

That shouldn't be so. If you've got something good that will really and truly benefit your prospect, he'll welcome a personal visit!

TYPING IS NOT WRITING: It continues to surprise me how many people think owning a persona computer or a word processor is an important ingredient in the success of anything. One subscriber, in fact, wanted us to brainstorm how he could use his PC to start a desk top publishing empire. You know what that's like? It's like someone saying, "Hey, I just got myself a typewriter. Now, tell me what else I need to become another Hemingway."

How about half a brain?

There's a quote I like. It says, "Thought should be a guide to action, not a substitute for it." So it is with computers. Most people who want to write or publish and then get a PC, they end up spending all their time learning how to make it work instead of perfecting their craft.

Listen up: Of all the ingredients necessary to becoming a good
copywriter, a publisher or to become good at writing anything, a word processor or a personal computer is, by far, the least important ingredient in the entire equation.

I have spoken.

Here's a headline I like:

How To Get All The
Money You Need Even
If Your Bank
Just Turned You Down!

A question: Does anybody know anything about some guy named Duvall and his "Mail Order Matrix"? That was a question that came up during the session and nobody knew anything about it.

Here's another headline I like:

17 Stocks That Are
Going To Die Right
Before Your Eyes!

FAX JUNK MAIL: Someone at the session (I thinks it was my kid, Bond) suggested to one of the supplicants that he should send his ads via FAX. Whoa! There's gonna be some hell raised about this. Just recently, in the L.A. Times, there was a story about a lawyer burning the midnight oil and desperately waiting in the middle of the night for someone to fax him a time-sensitive document. Finally, to his relief, the machine came to life and spewed forth a document. But alas. It wasn't what he was waiting for. No. It was a #@!*@# ad!

Tell you what, friends: we already invade their mailboxes, their phones, their homes and their airwaves but, ads by FAX will not be tolerated. The difference is, when you are receiving a fax ad, your machine is all tied up and can't produce those critical documents you are desperate to receive for which you bought the machine in the first place.

Back off!

IT'S NOT NICE TO FOOL FATHER HALBERT: "I'll show that insufferable egomaniac. I'll send him and his roundtable something that's working like crazy and then reveal what fools he and his "Genius Network" are when they tear my masterpiece apart."

It didn't work, Joe England, Bud Jennings, Don Beaver, Richard Potter, (thanks for coming), Dennis Spake, Russell A. Whitney, Fred Rowe, Tom Liquori, (good having you there), Gary Marguls, Gene Dowdle, Michael Duclos and all you others who tried to pull one over on 'ol Guru Gary.

HOW TO GET A DOCTOR TO READ YOUR MAIL: Nowadays, many doctors sort through their mail before they let their staff touch it. What are they looking for? Letters From Attorneys! They don't want their staff to know about any pending malpractice suits or stuff like that. So, if you are writing to a doctor and you can come up with a legitimate reason to have your sales letter come from an attorney....

Dear Dr. Jones,

As an attorney who has filed suit against 300 of your fellow practitioners, I thought maybe you'd......

....then maybe you will at least get your message read.

BERNARD GETZ MASKS? Gary Waltershied thinks they could be sold to people who ride the subway.

AN IMPORTANT SUGGESTION for catalog mailers: your front cover (and probably your back one too) should contain teaser copy instead of graphics. For example:

*


*


*	L.A. Doctor Discovers 
New Way to Lose Weight (see page 17)

Amazing New Sunglasses 
Improve Your Mood (see page 4)

Weird Device From NASA 
Research Makes Your Car Get 200 MPG (see page 22)

etc., etc.

How about this: how about getting one of the big compilers like Donnelley or Polk to give you a kick-out of people who own a specific make and model of car and then send those people a letter with a headline that says:

How To Get The Most
Out Of Your '57 Chevy!

Or your 1983 Buick?

Or whatever?

And then, of course, you sell them a book or a mechanical device that fulfills the promise in your letter.

You like that one? I do.

GETTING YOUR PRODUCT featured in the movies: It may be easier than you think, Call Don Camp, mention my name, and see if he can help you.

(213) 281-6970

How about this for a headline for a real estate course?

How To Beat The Other
Vultures To The
Widow's Doorstep!

SELL THE DESTINATION NOT THE TRIP: Much of the advertising sent to me for brainstorming had the serious (and perennial) flaw of extolling features to the exclusion of benefits. Listen: if you and your honey are taking a vacation to Hawaii, it's the part about the good restaurants and nightclubs and lying on those warm beaches that you fantasize about, not the plane flight, right?

 So, sell the rewards, not the tools.

SPEAKING OF HAWAII, Joe Sugarman's seminar has been postponed, probably until January. Joe called me a few days ago from a hospital. It seems he and his wife were hit head-on by a speeding drunk driver. Punctured lung, broken leg and other assorted injuries.

Damn it to hell, anyway.

WANT TO KNOW how to write successful bullets? Get the advertising from Boardroom Books for "The Book of Inside Information."

SAY, DID YOU KNOW you can now buy disposable videos for about $5.00? If your prospect has a VCR and you have a complicated story about a high-tech product, you might consider this option.

HEY, HERE'S ANOTHER TV related idea that is new to me. You know how, when you stay at a hotel, you can pay to see certain movies instead of the free regular programming? Well, according to Ken Kerr, some localities have "Pay for View" TV where people can pay to get your 30-minute program (commercial) on how to lose weight or play better golf or what have you.

Hmn?

THE READER'S DIGEST PENNY MAILING: Here's a story I told the group that was told to me by the late, great Ed Mayer. Many years ago, the Reader's Digest was selling for a price that ended in 98 cents. I don't know if it was $1.98, $2.98, or what. No matter. Anyway, somebody came up with the idea of sending a letter with 2 pennies taped to the top and the message, "We're so sure you'll want to subscribe, we are taking the liberty of sending your change in advance."

How did it do? The results were breathtaking! This campaign worked so well the Digest had to get the Denver Mint to create a boxcar full of new pennies. The mailing eventually became so massive that the nixies (each containing 2 cents) were worth 10's of thousands of dollars.

But there was a problem. The Digest discovered it cost more than 2 cents to open, remove and account for the pennies inside each returned letter.

And, since it's against the law to destroy money, they couldn't just throw the nixies away.

So what they did is this: they hired the local Boy Scout troop to open the letters and remove the pennies. And the scouts got one penny and the Digest got the other.

And that's how the Boy Scouts of Pleasantville, New York paid for their new brick clubhouse.

I wonder? Could this be done once again by another publisher?

You Bet It Could!

And, I also wonder, what if somebody got real daring and sent a $5.00 bill to 1,000 of the best prospects for his high-ticket product or service and weaved a story along those same lines? Hmn?

There's a lot more that came out in that two-day brainstorming session. You know, I sure wish all of you had been able to come. But, fear not. I'm going to do it again. Now listen: do you want to be at the next one? If so, raise your hand and let me know.

Wow! All in all, we brainstormed 99 different ads, direct mail packages and marketing ideas. All the way from stuff from the AAA and TIME-LIFE down to selling a key chain with a postage-paid return address.

The Tapes Of Those
Sessions Contain Gold!

There are about 10-12 hours worth of master recordings and I'm having them made up into a set called:

Brainstorm '87

Or something like that.

There will probably be about 12 tapes in the set and all of the contributors (supplicants?), (victims?), will receive, free of charge, the individual tape wherein I and my "Genius Network" discuss his or her pitiful submission.

I'm a sweet guy, ain't I?

However, if anybody wants the full set of tapes, they're going to have to cross my palm with silver.

Fair's fair.

Here Here is where you can get it(The Brainstorming Sessions)over at halbertising.com!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"The Goyem Guru
of Galloping Greatness"
 
P.S.	I did a TV shoot with Elke Sommer a couple of weeks ago and, I have to say, she's a real Princess when compared to some of the other Hollywood types I've worked with.
P.P.S.	
Here's a little something from my "I told you so" department. According to a recent (11-2-87) article in the WALL STREET JOURNAL, a study by the Newspaper Advertising Bureau revealed that, in 1982, Americans threw away 57% of all direct-mail advertising they received.

Sounds horrible, doesn't it? But wait. That's the good news. An update of that same study shows that nowadays....

Americans Throw Away
75% Of The Direct Mail
They Receive!

Are you still mailing bulk without even testing first-class? If so, you've really got your head in the sand because the study mentioned above doesn't even take into account all the mail that the post office throws away!

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Something Worth Thinking About

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2006/spiritual_newsletter.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear friend and subscriber,

     Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness that most frightens us. We ask ourselves, Who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, fabulous? Actually, who are you not to be? You are a child of God. Your playing small does not serve the world. There is nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won't feel insecure around you. We are all meant to shine, as children do. We were born to make manifest the glory of God that is within us. It is not just in some of us; it is in everyone. And, as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

PS#1

 

	
What you have just read was not written by me. It was written by Marianne Williamson and it is an excerpt from her book A Return To Love: Reflections on the Principles of A Course in Miracles. I was turned on to this piece of writing by my good friend and crack copywriter Peter Stone (peterstone@peterstonecopy.com).

	

PS#2

	

In any case, I believe this message is dead on target and gives us all something to think about. I hope you agree.

Peace.


	

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Great News for Fans of The Gary Halbert Letter

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2007/october_2007_Good_News/october_2007_Good_News.htm

THE GARY HALBERT LETTER

7510 SUNSET BLVD. #1020

LA, CA 90046

KEVINHALBERT@THEGARYHALBERTLETTER.COM

PHONE 323-851-8275




 

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

          For all of you who have felt the loss of Gary Halbert's colorful and inspirational newsletter, I have a lot of very good news. The best of the news is, it seems that Gary will be able to teach a few more marketing lessons from beyond the grave. More on this in a moment as we have a few announcements to make first.

          It has taken us a while but we finally got enough bandwidth so everyone who wants to can view the memorial service and some of the stories we shared back at Sherry Hackett's beautiful home after the service. Just click on the links at the bottom of this page to view them when you are done reading this important message.

          Due to a glitch, the site went down for a little while. Once we brought it back online, a lot of people expressed a heartfelt gratitude for leaving thegaryhalbertletter.com up and open to everyone. To all of those people, you are more than welcome. It would have been a dishonor to our father had we taken it down. He was much more than another marketing guru. He was in a way, a learning institution specializing in the field of direct marketing and more specifically copywriting.

          Nobody else I know of loved to teach other people the craft of copywriting as much as Gary Halbert. I do not remember a time in my life when my father wasn't teaching people how to write and market like he did. He was fired from the last job he ever held the day before I was born and then took up copywriting. After his first major runaway winner, the now famous Halbert's Inc. coat of arms letter, he taught anyone who was interested how to write copy. Copywriting was his life and felt a special kinship with anyone else who also had an interest in it.

          Much later he charged those who could pay to learn from him, but many who couldn't afford to pay him any substantial amount of money would work it off in trade. They would simply hang out with him and help him run his daily life. Some of them have turned out to be some of the best copywriters in the entire world and I am not just saying that. Their RESULTS really PROVE they are top shelf copywriters.

          Since he devoted so much of his time teaching people to write copy and obviously didn't always do it for the money, we just had to leave the site up and will continue to help him be the institution of learning how to write copy he always has been.

          To start, there are some newsletters we have which have never been posted on the site before and are in fact .....

Rare Newsletters
Written By The Gary Halbert Himself!


          These were written a very long time ago around the time when he worried and fretted the most about the quality of his newsletter so you know they are good. These are rarely seen classic newsletters which exemplify him at his peak.

          They have to be retyped and put into Gary 's signature web format of black print on a yellow background. We will get the first one up very soon.

          We also decided to ask a few of the world-class copywriters Gary taught and inspired if they would share stories and lessons they learned from the Prince of Print himself and honor him by giving away some of their most valuable insights and information for free.

          As soon as the word got out that we were looking for a couple guest writers many more of the world's best marketers and ad men offered to share some of the secrets and tricks they learned from Gary to make millions for themselves and their clients.

          These are some very heavy hitters in the field of direct marketing who have agreed to be guest writers in honor of Gary and our efforts to keep his legacy alive

          We had only one stipulation and that was there was to be NO FLUFF. In other words they can't just post an example of one of their winning ads or just give a long pitch to sell their marketing courses.

          They all have to provide what Gary Halbert did ......

Powerful Money Making Secrets
Absolutely FREE!


          These are the best of the best, top-shelf marketers who are highly in demand because they hold records and many are so successful they are booked solid for months. They are only doing this as a favor to us and in memory of our father so their insider secrets will only be available here at thegaryhalbertletter.com and nowhere else in the world.

          Others who do have more info available will have links to their sites and contact info but again we made them promise to provide top-notch quality marketing lessons for free and it must be....

So Hot They Charge Others
A Lot Of Money For The Same Info


          We can guarantee this because if it isn't great we won't post it. It's that simple.

          As usual there will be no editing of colorful language because my dad would ring our necks if we censored anything unless they were saying something he completely disagreed with.

          Which brings us to yet another announcement. As guardians of his legacy, we will remain available to set the record straight on all things relating to Gary C. Halbert. There are people already claiming to be close to him and others claim to work with him and some may be telling the truth but it is amazing just how many people are trying to cash in on his death by trying to pass themselves off as "Gary Halbert Approved" copywriters.

          Duty and honor compel us to be available to verify any and all claims to have known or worked with him and what stories are real and which are just flat out wrong. We are the definitive source on all things Gary Halbert. We worked with him since early childhood and we know what he said behind closed doors and after he hung up the phone.

          So feel free to e-mail and rely on us to separate fact from fiction.

          Besides teaching everyone who wished to learn how to write world class copy, he and his website were also the hub of a network of marketing people from copywriters and printers to entrepreneurs and investors. I still know many of his contacts so if you need anything along those lines feel free to e-mail us and we will help you out if we can.

          Onward...

          My favorite part of reading my dad's newsletters was the life lessons he gave. They reminded me of the Boron Letters which is of course my favorite gift of all time. Having them now means more to me than ever and I know they meant a lot to many people. So many in fact, when people who read my father's material found out my name they would go on and on about how much the letters meant to them as well.

          For those of you who also miss that life mentoring aspect of his newsletters I have some more good news.

          Since my father passed away, I began re-reading the Boron Letters again except this time with more of a sense that I wasn't the only one reading them. Remember, these are actual letters my dad wrote to me and there was no intention to publish copies of the actual letters so I always read them as though they were private letters from pop.

          I appreciated the Boron Letters long before my father passed away and my father was very proud that I continued what he started by writing letters to my own kids teaching them what I think is valuable to know and things that are never taught in schools or books.

          It is doubtful I will ever share those with the public as they are written in the true Halbert (no bullshit) fashion and read more like a confession or autobiography and I am not that comfortable sharing them.

          So even though mine are off- limits as I said I have been re-reading the Boron Letters with a slightly different perspective, and I have found a ton of hidden lessons in them I realized were lost on everyone else because he was writing to me and nobody else. He would briefly tell a story or touch upon a topic I was naturally expecting him to fully explain as he had in person so many times, yet he didn't. This wasn't missing before because I knew exactly what he was saying because of palling around with him and being his son.

          Then it dawned on me that most readers would have missed some of these finer points and lessons because at that time he wasn't writing for everyone either. At the time they were written he didn't plan on turning those exact pages he was writing into a book.

          So I have begun re-reading the letters and making notes and comments so that none of these hidden lessons in the Boron Letters are lost. I am doing this for my own kids and since they are not scandalous or personal to me.they will also be made available for those of you who still wish for just a few more life lessons from Gary Halbert.

          Scott Haines, a great friend of my pop's, told me my dad had a similar idea for the same reasons and wanted to create a more complete edition of the Boron Letters because he recognized the same thing and had of course more updated information from a few more decades as a legendary top copywriter.

          Please keep in mind we have busy lives and are only doing this to honor our father so the new info will come out often but not on a set schedule. We will always try to under promise and over deliver.

          Last time I wrote to announce that we would try to post the video of our father's memorial service and videos from the wake held afterwards at Sherry Hackett's home. We also said if we couldn't do that we would give the first 100 who requested it a DVD copy for free. We have decided to do both. You can now click on the links below to view the video right away.

          All the best,

          Bond Halbert

PS John Carlton was the obvious choice as the first guest writer and it is already in the newsletter archive. Most of you already know he is a marketing guru in his own right and one of Garys ' greatest friends and is mentioned in many of Gary 's newsletters.

For those of you who don't recognize the name just read what he put together for the first post Gary newsletter and you will be an instant fan.


 

 

 

       

	
	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2007 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.
Friends of The Gary Halbert Letter
	 	 	
Kevin's Corner

## Giving It Your Best Shot On Your Very First Test!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zfkk_best_shot.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Hey, you remember last month how I revealed to you how I was offering five free reports as a "bribe" to get people to subscribe to this newsletter?

What's that? You say you do remember? Good! Since that's the case, you may also remember that those free reports reveal the following five powerful secrets:

1.


2.


3.



4.


5.	What to write on a simple postcard mailing that will make people flood into your business.

How to mail up to 100,000 letters per week at no cost  whatsoever. Not even postage!

How to get the name and address of every man, woman and  child who is ever likely to become one of your customers!

How to get yourself and/or your business featured on cable TV without spending a penny!

How to make your ad in the yellow pages 400% more       effective without making it bigger!

Well anyway, the reason I'm reminding you of all this is because so many of my current subscribers have been phoning the office here and wondering what they would have to do to get those five free reports.

It's very simple. All you have to do is ask. Just send me a letter telling me you want the reports and I'll send them out to you immediately at my expense. And, although it's not necessary, if you happen to have anything nice to say in your letter that I could use as a testimonial, it would be greatly appreciated.

Why am I doing this? Actually, there are two reasons. The first reason is (as I've been telling you over and over), because I am truly a...

Prince Of A Guy!

And the second reason is that I'm "hoping" to get a testimonial from you because repeated testing over many years has proven that good testimonials almost always improve results.

Now, don't you think about all the foregoing was a pleasant (but rather adroit) set-up for the subject of this month's letter which is...

Testing     Testing     Testing     Testing     Testing

"To be the best
you've got to test.
It ends all debates
and gives your mind a rest."

Let's say you've got what you think is a great new idea that might make you lots of money. Let's say you've invented a new kind of "unlosable" golf ball that has a built-in electronic beeper that you can activate with a tiny transmitter you wear around your wrist like a Dick Tracy Radio Watch.

Sounds neat, doesn't it? You slice your ball off into the woods and then, instead of poking around blindly trying to find it, you simply activate the beeper and the little cricket-like signal leads you to the ball.

Your ad agency howls with enthusiasm. You're gonna make millions. But first, they say, you've got to do some market testing. You've got to test media, markets, price, and package design; whether to offer the balls in packages of three or packages of eight; a two-page letter, a 4-page letter, or a 6-page letter; you've got to test whether the balls should be conventional white in color or perhaps orange or yellow or some other color.

And so on.

Let me tell you something. All this advice is...

Stupid!     Stupid!     Stupid!     Stupid!

Firstly, all this testing will cost a fortune and secondly, at this stage, you only need to test to find the answer to one single question which is...

Does This Idea
Have Any Merit Whatsoever?

You'd be surprised how many "great" ideas have no market viability whatsoever. Recently, for example, I mailed a "can't fail" direct mail promotion to 2,600 California used car dealers. Here is the first page of the letter I used.

A world-famous advertising expert reveals...

How To Double The Size
Of Your Used Car Business
In Just 7 Weeks!

Thursday, 12:35 P.M.

From:
Gary C. Halbert                        (213) 273-7053
8033 Sunset Blvd.
Los Angeles, California

Dear Friend,

   Can your used car business handle hundreds and perhaps even thousands of new customers?

   If so, this may very well be the most exciting letter you will ever read. Why? The answer is simple. You see, I am writing to tell you about a rather amazing way to increase the size of your used car business and, quite possibly, triple your before-tax profits!

   Keep reading. I think you're going to love this letter.

   Anyway, here is what it's all about. Listen: In the next few days, I am (with your permission) going to send you a free copy of an exciting report called:

What To Write
On A Simple Postcard Mailing
That Will Make People
Flood Onto Your Car Lot!

Advertising campaigns do not have to be expensive. No. Believe it or not, you can get more customers with a cheap, simple postcard mailing than other people (your competitors) get with an expensive, full-color, full-page newspaper ad.

   But you've got to know exactly how  to do it. You know, it took me 15-years to discover this neat little trick. But now, by reading my free report, you can learn how to use this dirt-cheap little money-maker in just 15-minutes.

   But, believe me, you better be ready because this is the promotion that will make people flood into your business!

   Why am I going to send you this report and why am I sending it FREE? The answer is simple: It's a bribe! It's a shameless

(go to page 2)

                                             

* Great
   Headline!

 

 

* Great 
    Opening
    Sentence!

 

 

* Smooth,
    Powerful
    Copy!

 

 

* Tells It
    Like It Is!

 

 

* Shucks
    Right Down
    To The Core!

 

 

* Makes It
    Seem Easy!

 

 

 

 

And guess what happened? Yep. They stayed away in droves! In fact, so far, just one used car dealer has been smart enough and had enough "hustle" to respond to my pitch. Now, that particular car dealer is one smart cookie and he's probably going to make a lot of money because of reading my material but, the point is this...

What I Thought Was A Sure thing
Was, In Fact, A Total Bust!

But I found out cheaply. It ran about $1,300.00 to mail those 2,600 letters to those used car dealers and now I can go on to something else.

Hear this: Most new marketing ideas fail. That's OK. You just keep swinging the bat till you hit a home run and then, once you've got your winner, you simply milk it for all it's worth. But, what's important, really important, is to find out if your idea has any merit as fast as possible! And, the way to do that is by...

Giving It Your Best Shot
On Your Very First Test!

Let's go back to our "homing pigeon" golf balls. Here's how we'll give our first test our best shot. The first thing we've got to think about is what mailing lists we are going to test. There are many options. You could test the 434,000 names of prospective members of country clubs available from American Golf Lists. You could try a test to the subscription lists of the various golf magazines. Maybe there's a warranty card list of people who've just purchased golf equipment. There's also a list available from the Austad Company totaling several hundred thousand that has several interesting "selects." The description of the list in the SRDS Book says:

"Mail order buyers of golf clubs 
and golf accessories, tennis, handball and racquetball  equipment  and other recreational items. 83% men."

Well, I'd call my list broker and see if he could get me the very best parts of that list. I'd tell him I want only the recent, direct-mail generated names of multi-buyers of golf equipment. And, if there are "hotline" names available (like people who bought golf equipment in the last 30-days), I'd tell him those are the names I want.

And, after all this, I'd tell my broker that these are the names I want unless he happens to know of an even hotter list of names who've bought golf equipment by mail.

The point is this: I'd do everything possible to get the very best, very hottest names available for my first test.

Onward. O.K., now that we've identified our very hottest prospects, the next step is to determine the elements of our offer. I'm talking about price, terms and so forth.

Let's begin with price. For your first test, you should offer the lowest price possible with which you could conceivably make a profit. I don't know much about the wholesale price of golf balls, but let's say our cost of our new "radio" balls is $3.00 apiece and we're going to sell them in packages of six. That means our product cost is going to be about $18.00 and that we're probably going to have to pay another $3.00 or so for packaging, postage and handling.

The net result, of course, is that we've got to shell out $21.00 for every order we fulfill.

Now look, whenever I'm thinking about direct mail, I always mentally budget $.50 apiece for each letter I send out. Some of my mailings cost much more, some of them (created for my clients) are considerably cheaper but, just as a "ballpark" number to give us an idea of our total mailout cost, $500.00 per thousand letters mailed is not usually too out of line.

So, let's see what happens if we charge $69.95 plus $3.00 shipping and handling (total $72.95) for a six-pack of our golf balls. Since it costs us $21.00 to fill an order, that means on every sale we are generating a $51.95

"Contribution
To Overhead"

Now, let's divide this $51.95 "CTO" into $500.00 which as you remember, is our cost of mailing 1,000 letters. Hmn? According to my calculator, that means we've got to get 9.6 orders (let's round it off to 10) to break even on mailing 1,000 letters.

Well, that sounds "maybe doable" but, since we want to charge the lowest price possible, let's see how it works out when we charge only $39.95 plus $3.00 (total $42.95). O.K., subtracting our fulfillment cost of $21.00, that price leaves a $21.95 CTO on every order. And, by dividing $21.95 into $500.00 (our cost of mailing 1,000 letters) we find we've got to get 23 orders for every thousand letters we mail to make our nut.

Doable? Yeah, maybe. But I sure wouldn't be comfortable charging any less so, at this point, I think we've discovered the lowest price that even gives us a chance of making a profit.

Now, what about terms? We can insist on cash-with-order, we can offer terms (half now and later), we can ship COD, we can let them charge it to their credit cards or, we can do what we ought to do for this first test and tell them to...

Send No Money
We'll Bill You Later!

What else? Well, for one thing, send the strongest piece of copy you can create, attach some kind of "grabber" (reread the issue January 6, 1988 of this letter) and always, always, test your letters...

By First Class Mail!

Back to our golf balls. What's likely to happen here? Gosh, we're mailing to...

Our Hottest Prospects
at
The Lowest Price Possible
and allowing them
To Send No Money
and sending
Very Strong Copy With A Grabber
by
First-Class Mail!

Again, what's likely to happen? It's this: We'll probably fail. Yep, even after all of this, most likely we're going to strike out. You see, probably 9 out of 10 "brand new" marketing ideas don't cut the mustard and, if your idea is in that category...

You Want To Know
As Soon As Possible!

In life, time is the irretrievable element. Unfortunately, most of us live our lives as though it were some sort of dress rehearsal. It's not. This is it. Therefore, if you are in a business deal or personal relationship that doesn't seem like it will ever work, what you want to do in the interest of "salvage" is to get out as soon as you possibly can. And, until you've given the situation your "best shot," you'll never know whether you should keep struggling or not.

As far as direct mail is concerned, it is really frustrating to have initial results that are "marginal" and then to drive yourself crazy by testing the "maybes."

"Maybe if we had charged a lower price...?"

"Maybe if we had mailed only the recent hotline, multi-buyers...?"

"Maybe if we had offered credit...?"

"Maybe if we had offered a premium...?"

"Maybe if we had hired Halbert to do the copy...?"

Etc., etc., etc.

And, you know what? Maybe if you had done all that...

Maybe The Damn Deal
Still Won't Fly!!!

Please. Don't let all this discourage you. You should take the content of this issue as good news! You see, by using this "best shot" method, you'll be able to test more ideas, test them faster than ever before and...

Test Them Cheaper!

Which puts the odds on your side. Which means that, after a period of six months, while your competition is still wondering if "maybe we should lower the price on our homing pigeon golf balls," you'll have known half a year ago that the idea sucks, you'll have tested 16 other ideas and found three that work and you'll be well on your way to a roll-out of millions of letters on these three "winners" and you'll have the luxury of testing the fine points...

While You Are
Making Money.

How sweet it is!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	Gary "Best Shot" Halbert

 

P.S.	

I recently had a long lunch with Steve Brown, the creative genius behind Abernathy & Closther. Steve is one of the very sharpest guys in our business and he said something that was almost eerily appropriate to the subject of this month's letter. He said that, "When some people are digging for water, they'll dig a single hole and just keep digging deeper and deeper till they find it." On the other hand, as he also explained, there are other people (like him) (like me) who will not dig so deep but rather, will dig a lot of different holes till they find the H2O.

Which works better? Well, unless you've got really deep pockets or a profound emotional commitment to a certain project, you should opt for method #2.

Actually, what I like to do is "test dig" a lot of holes till one bears fruit and then, turn that well over to a guy with a different personality from  mine who will exploit that well for all it's worth.

Works for me.


P.P.S.	

If you're interested, don't forget to write for those free reports!

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Amazing Direct Mail Secret Of A Desperate Nerd From Ohio! Audio Version Contains Bonus Material Available Here

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zlkh_direct_mail_nerd.htm

From: 
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Do you remember receiving a letter from me with a dollar bill attached to it a couple of weeks ago?

You do remember? Good. And now, as you can see, once again I am sending you a letter with money attached. This time it's a penny. A nice, bright, shiny copper penny.

What's going on here? Why do I keep sending you letters with money attached? Am I some kind of nut or something?

Maybe so. Come to think of it, nobody yet has ever accused me of being sane! However, this time, at least, there is a bit of method to my madness. You see, what I'm trying to do is "condition" you. What I want is for you to get used to the idea of receiving money in the mail as a result of your association with me. I want it to become a habit. I want it to happen every day. I want you to experience what it is like to be flooded with so much mail you will have to hire an extra 40 people just to count it all and help you make your bank deposits!

Don't scoff. I've already done it dozens of times.

And now, my friend, I'm going to show you how to do it too. Won't that be nice? Let's get started!

First of all, if you've been paying attention, you should have already learned something that can dramatically increase the bottom-line profitability of almost any direct-marketing organization. Did you miss it? I bet not. What I'm talking about, of course, is the proper way to respond to an order.

Do you know what most mail order companies do when they get an order: Usually, the procedure goes something like this: They log it in, keypunch the customer data, generate a label, send the label to a fulfillment facility and then... the order gets filled.

Dumb! Dumb! Dumb!

Here's what they should be doing: As soon as they get an order, they should immediately send what I call a "thank you, please send more money" letter. Right away. Without waiting for keypunching. Without waiting for label generation. Without waiting till the order is filled. Without waiting for anything.

It should be done rather like the way I did it when you ordered from me. Remember? Remember how you got a very dramatic (and incidentally, very sincere) letter from me that thanked you for your order? Remember how I took the trouble to reassure you that you had made a wise decision when you subscribed to my letter? Remember how I resold you a little on the benefits to come?

And then... do you remember how, at the end of my letter, I told you I had enclosed another subscription order form... and... how I asked you "to give it to someone you love"?

What's that? You say you did catch all that? You say you're already doing something similar or at least you're going to start?

Good! Good! Good!

Now listen: Did you also notice how, by attaching something to the top of my letters, I am able to immediately capture and focus my reader's (your) attention? Did you also notice, however, how I made sure the attachment "made sense" (no pun intended) within the context of the rest of my letter? Did you notice how neatly my copy made the transition from the attachment (a penny) to the subject (getting money in the mail) of my letter?

You did catch all that? Wonderful. I knew you would. After all, you are one of my subscribers and my subscribers really are the sharpest people (true) in the entire industry.

OK, let's stop messing around. Let's dive right in to the subject of this month's letter which is...

The Amazing Direct Mail Secret
Of A Desperate Nerd From Ohio!

I first got bitten by the mail order bug in the mid-1960's. What really got me fired up was reading a little set of booklets called The Direct Mail Guides written by a man named Thomas Hall. Those guides were terrific. They remain, to this day, the very best material I've ever read on the subject of direct mail.

In any case, those guides were my original inspiration... and later... I became even more excited when I read an article in The Reporter of Direct Mail about a man named John Leslie who had a company called "Leslie Creations" and later, another company called "Mail Order Methods."

To me, Leslie and Thomas Hall were heroes. They were clear-headed doers who were successful in the most exciting, romantic business on earth: Mail Order. They had money, an exciting lifestyle (Leslie even had two refrigerators: One just for soft drinks!), recognition of their peers, and everything else a man could want. I longed to be just like them.

So I started to study. Hard.

I read everything I could get my hands on about advertising, direct mail and mail order. I mean everything. If my local library or bookstore didn't have a marketing book I wanted, I would drive hundreds of miles to get it. I even flew to New York (I was living in Ohio at the time) to check out the Manhattan Public Library, and to Washington, D.C. to forage through the Library of Congress.

Let me tell you: I was driven. I read it all. I was voracious. I went on a reading frenzy with the same passion a Great White goes on a feeding frenzy. I memorized all the rules, AIDA, IDCA, PPPP and so on. I learned, from my reading, that hundreds of split-run tests over the years had proven the following:

* It is more cost effective to use bulk rate than first-class postage.

* Teaser copy on the outer envelope always increases response.

* A two-color letterhead is better than only one color.

* The best direct mail package always contains (in addition to an outer envelope with teaser copy all over it and a two-color sales letter), a four-color brochure, a business reply envelope and a printed order card.

This was gospel. After all, all the books said the same thing. Those books also said it was almost impossible to make a compiled list work and that you should never, ever try to make a mailing to names from a telephone book.

Who was I to argue? This stuff was all "proven".

And so, armed with the results of all this "proven" research, I set out to make my fortune in direct mail.

Back then, my life settled into a routine and it went like this: I would come up with a product idea like a book or a report or something and then, following all the rules, I would create a direct mail package to sell that product. After that, I would then beg, borrow or steal enough money to get my envelopes, letters, brochures and everything else printed up and then, (to save money), my wife and I would stuff the letters and stamp and seal them ourselves and put them in the mail. Then, of course, we'd sit back to wait for the money to roll in.

It never came. Not very much anyway.

And so, I'd start over. I'd find or conceptualize another product and I'd go at it once again. I was so obsessed in those days that, if necessary, I would literally spend the utility money to make my test mailings. Sometimes my wife and I would be anxiously waiting for the orders to come while sitting in a dark house with no water because we hadn't paid our utility bills.

True.

This got to be very tiresome. Especially for Nancy. She was remarkably firm, after awhile, on the idea we should not let our water be turned off just so we could mail another test. Can you imagine that? I mean really; how narrow-minded can a person be? Is it any wonder we eventually got a divorce?

So anyway, after about three years (I'm sometimes a slow learner) of this dreary existence, I sat down and did some thinking. I said to myself something like this:

"Gary, what would you do if you had to make your next mailing work? What if you could only mail one letter and, if you didn't get a response, you would quite literally, be beheaded?"

Try thinking like that sometime... like your life actually depends on the success of your next mailing. Can you do it? Can you put yourself in that frame of mind? Well, I did, and I came to a number of conclusions, and I want you to reason along with me.

Now listen, if, for real, you had to mail one letter to a stranger and you had to get an order from him or you really would be murdered, here is the way I think you would be thinking:

First, I bet you would NOT mail bulk! Certainly not if your life depended on it. Would you? I sure wouldn't for at least three reasons:

1. If the stranger I was writing to had moved, my bulk-rate letter would NOT be forwarded to him... and... if my life really was on the line, I sure wouldn't chance non-delivery. Would you?

2. Secondly, if I mailed bulk rate and my letter did get delivered, I would be scared to death that maybe the stranger to whom I was writing would see it was bulk rate and maybe not open it because maybe he was very busy and maybe not feel like taking the time to open anything except his personal mail.

That's way too many maybes for me.

3. Thirdly, even back then, I had a sneaking suspicion that sometimes postal workers would throw away bulk-rate mail because they were too tired or too lazy to lug it around and they knew nobody would miss it!

And so, my friend, for those three reasons, I decided to mail my "life or death" letter via first-class mail.

But wait! Since my life was on the line, I also wanted to make sure my recipient knew it was first-class mail. In other words, I wouldn't risk confusing him by using metered mail or a first-class printed indicia. No. Absolutely not. Since my life depended on getting that letter opened, I decided I would use a real, honest-to-God, live postage stamp!

By the way, have you ever seen any of those stupid direct mail packages that use first-class postage that is cleverly disguised to look like bulk?

Enough about postage. The next thing that occurred to me is I would not put a label on my carrier envelopes. Certainly not if my life depended on it. No. What I would do, instead is, type or handwrite my stranger's name and address on that envelope because I would want him to accept my letter as a personal communication.

O.K., what else? Well, I decided I wouldn't put any teaser copy on the envelope either. I mean, honestly, would you risk your life on getting a response from a letter mailed to a stranger if the outside envelope said:

"Here's How To Get TIME Magazine
At Half Price!"

I wouldn't.

What would I write on the envelope? Well, I decided my best bet would be to write something like "URGENT" or "FIRST CLASS MAIL" or else maybe write nothing at all.

And what about the corner card? Should it reveal my letter was from TIME-LIFE BOOKS or THE AJAX WIDGET COMPANY or HALBERT'S MAIL ORDER GADGETS?

Not on your life.

Not on mine, anyway! No, sir. If, quite literally, my life depended on it, my letter was going to arrive in a plain, white personal-looking envelope with a real live, honest-to-God, first-class postage stamp, a typed or handwritten address, no teaser copy, and a corner card that revealed only (and very discreetly) the sender's return address.

Doesn't sound very impressive, does it?

Stay with me. You are reading the evolutionary process of some original conceptual thinking that has resulted in gross sales of untold hundreds of millions of dollars.

Onward.

So much for the envelope. So far, I had done everything I could (short of mailing by registered or certified mail) to get my letter delivered and accepted as a piece of personal mail... and... therefore, I had done what I could to achieve the primary and most important thing in all of Direct Mail Land which is...

I Got My Envelope Delivered
And
I Got It Opened!

What's that? Are you thinking "what's the big deal?" Listen my friend, as simple as this sounds, the Number One reason for the financial failure of most direct mail is because...

It Never Gets Delivered And/Or Never Gets Opened!

Really. Aside from making the wrong offer to the wrong list, not getting your letter delivered or opened is the Numero Uno mistake. Think about this: What does it matter how sparkling your copy, how compelling your offer, or how attractive your price if your intended recipient never receives (or opens) your letter? You know, this simple truth seems to me to be so self-evident I feel a bit silly being so redundant about it. But, you know what? I'd rather be redundant than bankrupt and bankrupt is where a lot of mailers have wound up because of failure to grasp this simple and "obvious" concept.

More about that later. But now, let's say we've got our letter opened. So what else is there to worry about?

Hmn? Let's see? Well, what about this? What if my prospect opens what he thinks is a piece of personal mail... and then... all of a sudden... he finds out it's not because he sees a color brochure, a printed order card, a BRE, a rabbit's foot and some kind of YES-No "hot potato"?

No good. Certainly not if my life depended on getting a response. No good at all. There's just no way I would be willing to risk having my guy open what he thought was a personal letter and then see all that stuff and go, "Oh, yuck!"

Nope. You know what I decided I would want him to see when he opened that letter? Actually, it's so unusual I'll bet you'll never guess. And... unless you're very broad-minded... you'll probably never forgive me for this kind of anarchistic thinking. Because... what I decided I wanted my guy to see when he opened that envelope was a (gulp!)... a... a... a...

Letter!

Yes. I wanted him to see what was, or at least appeared to be, a real, honest-to-God personal letter.

And nothing else.

And so, my very first "life or death" mailing contained only two elements: The rather plain envelope I've already described and a simple one-page (361 words) letter that had the appearance of a personally typed letter.

Did it work?

I'd say so. That letter generated 7,300,000 cash-with-order customers and was the wellspring that built a mail order company, (Halbert's) that eventually employed more than 700 people, 40 of whom were needed just to make our bank deposits which often consisted of some 20,000 checks per day.

Now listen. My thinking on what a direct mail package should contain has changed over the years. For one thing, I have learned how to achieve that same effect (or, at least a similar effect) by using bulk-rate stamps and now, I usually include a reply envelope... and most always... an order form (I hide it, though).

In any case, what you have just read is the evolutionary process of how I developed my A-Pile/B-Pile concept and I am including a more precise and formal, up-to-date explanation of that concept on the next few pages of this letter. If you create direct mail yourself, what I suggest you do is put those particular pages in a file someplace and re-read them every time you are about to design another mailing. And... if you pay other people to create direct mail for you... I suggest you photocopy (just this once, you have my permission) those pages and give them to your creative person and tell him/her to consider the concepts contained therein before your next piece is created.

Onward.

The A-Pile
Vs.
The B Pile

Are you ready to get started? Good. You are now about to learn the most important thing you will ever learn on the subject of direct mail. I have a similar lesson to teach you about newspaper and magazine advertising, but that will come later in another letter. Right now, we will talk only about direct mail.

Whatever. Professor Halbert is now going to give you his semi-famous "A-Pile/B-Pile Lecture." It goes like this: Everybody in the world divides his mail into two piles which I call the A-Pile and the B-Pile. The A-Pile contains letters that are, (or appear to be), personal. The B-Pile contains everything else: Bills, catalogs, brochures, printed announcements, envelopes that obviously contain a sales message, and so on.

Now listen up: The most important thing you can ever do when creating a direct mail promotion is to make sure your letter gets in the A-Pile!

Here's why. Everybody always opens all of their A-Pile mail and only some of their B-Pile mail.

It's as simple as that. And when you are spending thousands (and sometimes millions) of dollars to mail a sales message, you want to make damn sure everybody who receives your letter will at least open the envelope. You know, this simple truth seems to me to be so self-evident that I am always amazed when someone wants to argue with me about it. And, usually, as you might expect, the most vigorous arguments come from the most "experienced" advertising people. These people just love to tell me how they always found that B-Pile direct mail is more cost effective.

They are always wrong. You see, they may have sent a personal looking envelope but usually, as I'll explain later, they forget to eliminate the "Oh, yuck!" reaction. But first, let's talk about the differences in the appearance of an A-Pile envelope as opposed to an envelope that is destined to wind up in the B-Pile.

It's really quite simple. You see, A-Pile envelopes always look personal. Not necessarily personal like they came from your Aunt Minnie but, at least, personal like they were a communication from one real person to another real person. The best (most cost-effective) A-Pile envelopes always have a live postage stamp affixed. They never have teaser copy. They never immediately reveal by the corner card the material inside contains a commercial message. They are never addressed by label and they are seldom oversized or odd shaped.

Want an example? If so, just look at the envelope this letter came in. It's a plain white #10 with a typewritten address, a first-class postage stamp and a corner card that reveals only the name and address of the sender.

Down With Awards For Graphic Design;
Up With Response!

Now let's talk about B-Pile envelopes. What do they look like? You already know. You've seen thousands of them. They are usually label addressed and they contain teaser copy, award winning graphics, photographs, YES-NO windows, windows with a fake check showing through, "Miami Vice Colors", a printed bulk-rate indicia or else a printed first-class indicia (the stupidest mistake in direct mail), tearstrips, and any and everything else a misinformed direct mail "expert" can think of that will (he thinks) help get his envelope opened.

It's so sad.

Now bear with me. I want you to imagine, in your mind's eye, that a very busy man (or woman) is going to his mailbox and there... lo and behold... he finds a double handful of B-Pile mail. Can you see it? Can you see that unbelievable "Collection of creativity"? Can you see all those pastel-colored window envelopes? See the one that says, "Free Oxygen To Everyone Who Breathes"? Can you see the one that says, "The Most Important Collection Of Books Ever Offered By TIME-LIFE"? Can you see the one that has (oh boy!) three windows? Can you see that fat one which contains enough printed material to make up the first volume of the Encyclopedia Brittanica? (Come to think of it, that one did come from the Brittanica.) Can you see the one with a photo of a starving child begging for food? Can you see the one some idiot tried to personalize by computer printing (on the envelope!) some cute little message that says, "Here's good news for the Halbert family and everybody else who lives close to 8033 Sunset Boulevard"?

Just look at that mess!

Can you guess what happens when a busy man (or woman) goes to his mailbox and finds such a collection? What is the first thing he will do with all this stuff? Go ahead and guess. I bet you get it wrong.

O.K., let's find out. Did you guess the first thing a person will do with all this stuff is throw it away? If you did, you are wrong. You see, the first thing a person will do with it is sort through it to see if he has received any A-Pile mail.

After that, then he throws it away!

Now, before I go on, I want to admit he will not always throw all of it away. If he happens to spot an envelope that catches his eye... and... if he happens, at that very moment, to be just dying to buy another magazine subscription or self-help book... or... if he has just been going crazy waiting for a piece of mail from the Columbia Record Club, then maybe, just maybe, he will open one of these envelopes and see what it is all about.

But don't count on it. The percentages are against you.

O.K., if getting your letter into the A-Pile is the most important thing you can do, what is the next most important thing you can do? The answer is simple. The next most important thing is to make sure your letters stays in the A-Pile.

Here's what I mean. Suppose your prospective customer gets an envelope which looks like one of the A-Pile envelopes (like the one this letter came in) that I have already described. Listen: There is no doubt such an envelope will be opened. It looks personal, it has a first-class stamp, it does not obviously contain a sales message... and... all in all, it is an excellent example of a personal looking envelope. However, what happens when he does open the envelope and he finds a bunch of material that looks like the creation of it has set up some graphic artist for life (not to mention his sleazebag brother-in-law who owns a printing business)?

You know what I'm talking about, don't you? I'm talking about the big colorful brochures, YES-NO tokens, lurid, oversized order forms, ingenious award winning "hot potatoes", whistles, bells, kazoos, and a personal message from President Reagan.

What will happen? I'm sure you already know: What will happen is our prospect will say, "Oh, yuck!"... and... most likely... he will now throw the promotion away!

No good. Here is a better way. I want you to imagine what will happen when your prospect opens the A-Pile envelope... and instead of seeing "Graphics on Parade"... he sees what appears to be a simple, typed letter and another envelope that is plain, white and sealed and has typed on it:

"Please Open This Envelope
As Soon As You Have Read My Letter.
Thanks.  GH"

What will happen? It's easy to figure out. Your prospect will begin reading the letter to find out what this is all about. And then, if you are skillful enough, your letter will grab your prospect's attention, it will hold his interest, it will whet his appetite for your goods or services... and then... at the end... it will refer him to the sealed envelope and tell him to open it for more information and descriptive literature.

And what will he find when he opens the sealed envelope? Nothing special, really. You see, what he will find is all the same stuff (order card, brochure, reply envelope, etc.) that was in many of the B-Pile packages I have previously described.

But what is different, what is so very different, is when he was exposed to this material. It's a matter of timing. Selling is like seduction. If you ask a woman to go to bed with you, whether or not she says "yes" is largely a matter of when you ask her. If you ask her immediately, as soon as you've been introduced, most likely she will think you are a creep and tell you to get lost. However, if you wait a while, wait until she gets to know you a little, wait until you've wined and dined her a few times, wait until she's had a chance to warm up to you, to discover you are, indeed, a fine fellow, then, my friend, your chances of getting a "yes" for an answer are much, much better.

So it is with selling. Any kind of selling. It doesn't matter if it is door-to-door, direct mail, television, radio, newspaper ads or whatever; if you take the trouble to warm up your prospect, to seduce him a little before you pop the big question ("will you buy my goods?"), then your closing rate will be much, much higher.

Don't Be A Masochist!

I know, I know. There's an old joke about a guy who immediately asked every woman he meets to go to bed with him, and when his friends ask him if he doesn't get slapped a lot, he replies, "Sure I do, but I get lucky a lot, too!"

Well, in my opinion, that guy is much more of a masochist than he needs to be. You don't have to go around getting slapped all the time in order to get a little romance in your life... and... in direct mail, you don't have to settle for the high rate of rejections to sales most promotions get.

A Million Dollar Example!

Look: Here is a true story which will illustrate my point. Not long ago, I was asked to go to las Vegas to help a guy who was in trouble. The guy was a nephew of Colonel Sanders, and he had inherited a lot of Colonel Chicken's money and he had invested it in a lot of high-priced vitamins he was unable to sell. The vitamins were stored in a warehouse and he and his partners wanted to know if I could figure out a way to sell them by mail.

I wasn't very interested. I was very, very interested, however, in a certain promotion which was being mailed by one of the men at that meeting, and I told this man I would like to redo his mailing piece for him.

He wasn't interested. He said his mailing was already working. He said he was mailing between 300,000 and 1,200,000 letters every month and he was making a good profit.

You know what I told him? I told him his mailing was working in spite of how horrible it was. I told him he had obviously discovered an appeal that was so "right on target" to the people he was mailing to that even a really terribly conceived mailing piece would work. I also told him that if he would let me redo his mailing package and give it the A-Pile treatment, he would hardly be able to believe the results.

He agreed to let me try. He wrote me a big deposit check (I love that part!) and we made a deal. Then I got back on the plane and flew back to L.A. and, before the wheels touched down, only 45 minutes later, I was finished. I hardly rewrote the promotion at all; I just cleaned it up a little so it flowed a little more smoothly. But, of course, the main thing I did was reformat his promotion. I made sure his envelope looked personal so it would get into the A-Pile and I made sure when the envelope was opened the promotion still had an A-Pile look and the prospect would be sure to, at least, begin to read the sales letter.

So, what were the results? Does this stuff really work or is it all theory?

None of this is theory. Everything I have told you has been proven by careful testing. What has happened in this case is that promotion, (using the same sales pitch and almost the exact same words), is pulling in approximately $96,000.00 more every month.

That's over one million extra dollars per year in return for 45 minutes' work.

Case closed. End of lecture.

Onward. Thank you for reading that last section. And now, with your permission, I shall continue. Let us go back to where I was earlier in this letter before I subjected you to my A-Pile/B-Pile lecture. As you will recall, I was flat broke trying to reason with a pig-headed wife who considered running water and electricity more important than making another direct mail test. So much for her. In any case, after I figured out my "life or death" letter should at least "look" personal, I decided it would be just wonderful if, somehow, I could give my sales letters the appearance of having actually been individually typed and that's when I figured out...

How To Make
A Fake Computer Letter!

Please pay attention; this is going to be fun reading! O.K., now back in those days, computer letters were just starting to catch the attention of the direct marketing community. The first ones were just awful. All the letters were in upper case type and they looked more like a DECLARATION OF WAR than a personal letter. But then, a bit later, a genius named Leo Yochim got hold of the first upper and lower case IBM print chain and started massaging computer programs in such a way as to eventually develop a computer letter that looked a lot like a real typed letter.

And guess what? Those first computer letters would, on the average, increase response by 300%!

But there was a catch. Actually, there were two catches. One was very few people knew how to create those computer letters and the other was it cost a fortune to do the programming and generate the letters.

This did not bode well for a nerd (me) who couldn't even pay his utility bills.

Now remember, my frame of mind back then was that I was going to create a "do-or-die" direct mail package and that concept does not lend itself well to a letter that begins "Dear Sir" or "Dear Occupant" or "Dear Resident".

So one fine day, I found myself reading a newspaper story that changed my entire life. It was about a little old lady who had found a neat way to supplement her social security income. What she would do is, she would go to her local library and pick out a surname and then do some research and find out if there was ever a coat-of-arms (family crest) that was recorded with that name.

Then, if there was, she would make a black and white drawing of it and have that drawing printed on a postcard. Then she would mail her postcard to everybody who had that surname who lived in her county. The postcard would say she had discovered a coat-of-arms had been recorded with the recipient's name and this is what the design looked like in black and white. She also went on to say the coat-of-arms was even more dramatic in color and would offer to hand paint one for the reader for a relatively modest fee.

Bingo!

Oh, wow! My mind started racing. "Look," I said to myself. "Gary, here is a way to make FAKE computer letters! What I'll do is get a bunch of telephone books from a bunch of big cities and then I'll pull out all the Andersons and Bakers and Halberts and so on, and then I'll type one letter that starts out 'Dear Mr. Anderson,' and then I'll weave in that name all throughout the copy."

And I did, and it worked!

I started out with phone books, but later, after I had a little money, my partner (Dennis Haslinger) and I made an arrangement with Reuben Donnelly in Oak Park, Illinois (Bob Harter was our rep back then; I wonder whatever happened to him?) and here's what we had Donnelly do: We had them computer pass their entire file (that cost about $70,000 back then) and put all those names into alphabetical order. By the way, you know what is ironic? They had just taken them OUT of alphabetical order because of the new postal regulations that required you to keep your list in ZIP order!

Anyway, once the file was in alphabetical order, we'd have them kick out 20 surnames or so and have them address envelopes to all those names and keep each pile of envelopes addressed with certain surnames separate from the other "surname piles."

Let's say one of the names was Anderson. O.K., what we'd do is we'd type one "Anderson letter" and then have it offset printed... and then... we would have a thousand or so FAKE computer letters.

And... of course... we'd then insert all those "Anderson letters" into the "Anderson envelopes" and mail them out... and then... we took in

Millions And Millions And
   Millions And Millions And
     Millions Of Dollars!

And ever since, good old semi-handsome Gary has been able to pay his utility bills.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
In Print Salesman

 

P.S. Some of the names pulled like crazy and some names didn't work at all. Can you guess why? I'll tell you next month, and I'll also tell you how to test a list without getting burned.

It is very important you know this stuff about how to test a list. Your list broker does NOT know and neither does whatever consultant you are using. And listen: This info on how to test a list is so important that if you have a big test mailing going out before next month, you should call me and I'll tell you what you need to know (free) on the phone.

P.P.S. I'm working my buns off for you. If you've been paying attention, you've started learning important stuff (like how to acknowledge an order) before you even got this first issue. So tell your friends about my newsletter. Rave about me. Recommend me... and... better yet, give them one of the order blanks I've included with this letter which are to be found (of course) inside the enclosed sealed envelope. Thank you.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## John Reese The 500 Pound Gorilla

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/motherlode.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber

I just came back from attending John Reese's seminar on Internet marketing.

It was, hands down, the best, most informative seminar I've ever attended.

Actually, it was almost too much. He packed so much useful info about Internet marketing into three days, it set every attendee's mind literally on fire. In fact, my mind was so fired up, I've been suffering a temporary "brain meltdown".

I once told Ed Dale I thought I knew more about how to increase website profits than anyone else in the world.

What bullshit. John knows... so damn much... about how to profit from the Internet, he makes me (and everyone else I've ever met) seem like we are just learning the alphabet... while he... is already writing best-selling novels.

When it comes to making Internet profits, John Reese is truly the 500-pound gorilla. Nobody else can touch him. If you ever get a chance to go to a seminar where he is teaching, you are insane if you don't attend. I told him at the seminar he had presented me with a challenge. Which was, "How the hell am I going to take credit for all your ideas and breakthroughs?"

He made a very gracious (and I believe heartfelt) reply. He said, "Gary, you can take credit for a lot of this information because it was your newsletters (and the information from a few other marketing gurus) that blazed the trail for me and got me going."

Truth be told, he would have gotten to where he is without me. But, I am conceited enough to believe my teachings and writings may have shaved a few years off the time it took him to get where he is.

If it's not true, don't tell me. I've found it useful to believe what I LIKE to believe, whether it's true or not.

Anyway, after all that, is there anything else you need to know... even if... you did attend John's seminar?

I think there is... and... I'm going to give my own seminar which I think will give out some very important info never before revealed. My seminar is titled:

How To WRITE A Website Pitch




That Will Make You Rich!

One comment I made at John's seminar was about how I believe all Internet marketers should study non-Internet marketing... and... pre-Internet marketing.

You see, if someone already knows how to write a great print ad or direct mail letter, he'll be able to put all the website secrets he knows on steroids!

Listen: All writing of sales pitches are related. Learning to write a great direct mail pitch will help you write a great newspaper ad, a TV commercial, etc. But, there are differences between certain things you need to know to write for each different media. Much will be the same but, there will be important differences...

Especially When It Comes




To Writing A Website Pitch!

And, I'm gonna teach you how. My seminar will probably be held somewhere in the first two weeks of May. I've given seminars that range in cost from $7,000 to $12,000. This one's NOT going to be nearly as expensive. It's NOT going to have a "give away" price either... but... it IS going to be low-priced enough so money will NOT be an excuse for anyone not to attend.

I don't know exactly where this seminar will be held. But, I do know it will be in either Miami or Orlando. It's going to depend on the best hotel for rooms and a conference center my Trusty Assistant, Theresa can arrange.

I'll tell you all the details very soon... but... in the meantime, DON'T make any other plans for the first couple weeks in May.

In the meantime, I've got something to offer you. I think you're going to be VERY interested in this. And, here's a little secret: My brain was so impacted with all the GREAT info from John Reese's seminar, I had Theresa write the copy that follows. So, take it away Theresa...

 

Whether you're a novice, intermediate or a skilled copywriter...   
you need to know...
 

How To Get Your Hands On




"The Motherload"!

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

By now, I'm sure you've read a number of my newsletters I publish for free on my website.

And I'm sure by now, you realize I am a no bullshit, teach-them-what-they-need-to-know kinda guy.

But what you may not know is, I have NOT given you everything I have to offer on my website.

You see, in addition to haven written hundreds of newsletters over the years, I have also written hundreds of sales letters. Sales letters for myself and for my clients. Pitches selling everything from high-ticket seminars ($6,950)... to low-end books ($19.95)... and of course, everything in between.

Last week I attended a seminar where a number of attendees had what I consider, enormous Internet skills. They know their stuff down cold when it comes to getting any and everywhere on the worldwide web.

But, I have to admit, I was surprised at their lack of marketing skills. What good is it to be able to find your way around the web... if... you don't stand a chance of selling anything?

That's when it hit me! These people (and I'm sure many others like them) need my help. And I remember my mama always telling me...

"Teach Them By Example!"

But before I get into the "guts" of this letter, I have a little exercise for you to do. Let me ask you a couple questions and be honest when you answer them. Since no one will see your answers, go ahead and put a check mark (√) in each block where the situation applies to you:

□ Question 1:

	Do you cringe at the mere thought of having to come
 	up with a "killer" headline?
 	 
□  Question 2:	Do you get writer's block knowing you basically
 	have the first 30 to 60 seconds... the first paragraph or two... to catch your reader's attention?
 	 


□   Question 3:

	Do you suffer from migraine headaches trying to write body
 	copy that whets your potential customer's appetite... forcing him to read from one paragraph to the next to the next?
 	 
□   Question 4:	Do you come up empty on "bullets"?
 	 
□   Question 5:	Do you flop around like a fish out of water in your closing?
 	 
□   Question 6:	Do you need a captivating P.S. to pull the "maybe I'll buy"
 	customers over to the paying side?
 	 
□  Question 7:	Do you go blank when it comes time to write an order coupon?
 	 
 	 

If you checked off even one of the above boxes, then you need my...

"Motherload Collection




Of Marketing Masterpieces!"

What's amazing about this "Motherload Collection" is the wide variety of subjects... the vast amount of copywriting techniques... the humongous examples of strategies... that, when applied to your advertising (whether online, direct mail letters, newspapers or otherwise) will improve your results...

Dramatically...




And... Instantly!

I've put together a combination of hundreds of sales pieces including sales letters, newspaper ads, and website promotions which you can use as a template to get your own advertising in high gear. Here's a taste of some of the HEADLINES you'll get:

 

Here's How You Can Get




The Tapes Of My $6,250.00




"Seminar Of The Century"




ABSOLUTELY FREE!

 

Would You Accept A Bribe Worth




$2,855 To Renew Your Subscription




To Gary's Newsletter?

 

How To Use The Secrets Of "Killer"




Advertising To Get More New Customers Than




Your Business Can Handle!

 

Free Video Tapes Reveal




11-New Ways To Make Extra




Money In 1996!

 

An Open Letter To Anyone Who




Has Just Finished Reading My Book And




Is Now Ready To Make Some Serious Money!

 

An Embarrassing Situation




Revealed By Gary's




"Trusty Assistant" Theresa

 

The Amazing Marketing Miracles




Created By Sir Gary Of Halbert!

 

Free Report Reveals




46 Hot Products You Can Sell




By Computer Or Mail Order!

 

An Open Letter To Every Attractive




Woman In Miami Who Is Serious About




Having A Career As A Professional Model

But maybe headlines come to you easy. Maybe you're one of the lucky few who can rattle one off the top of your head. But then... ah then... you have to start writing! And you have to write such compelling copy in the first opening paragraphs, your mind goes blank. Where to start?

With examples like these, you ought to be able to get out of the "starting gate":

     If you would like to double or triple your income in 1996, this may be the most important letter you will ever read.

     Here is why: Until a short time ago, there was a place in Key West, Florida called "The College of Millionaires". It was created by a man named Gary C. Halbert. What Halbert and his "college" became famous for, was giving intense "secret" 3-1/2 day seminars... which cost... each attendee $6,950... just to get in the door! (NOTE: This price did not include travel or hotel expenses!)

 

    Would you like to know all about several low-cost advertising "tricks" that can get you more new business than you could ever hope to handle?

 

     If you are already a professional model or, if you'd like to be, this is going to be the most exciting message you will ever read.

 

     On the other hand, if you want to be a model... but... you don't really have what it takes... this message can save you thousands of dollars and a great deal of misery and heartbreak.    

 

     I am sending you, along with this letter, a small gift.

 

     If you have just finished reading my book, "How To Make Maximum Money In Minimum Time" you already know my advertising secrets have generated millions of dollars.

 

     Would you like to get your share of some of this money? If so, here is good news. Recently, I conducted a seminar (yadda yadda)

 

     Do you have the guts to do... whatever it takes... to protect yourself, your family and your home?    

 

     Here's a true story that makes me feel a little bit stupid.

 

     Have I ever got a deal for you!

 

     Do you remember the letter I sent to you with a $1.00 bill attached to the first page?

  

     Have I ever got a deal for you!

 

     Listen: I am about to make you the most interesting proposition you've ever heard. And, if you go along with my idea, you can get the tapes of my mind-blowing seminar (and all the other material that came with the seminar) at no cost whatsoever!

 

     My name is Larry Williams and I'm going to get right down to business.

 

     I'm going to fill you in on a little secret and you must keep it between you and me. You see, if the "Head Hauncho" found out what I'm doing...

 

It Could Cost Me




My Job!

 

     A few days ago I sent you a 12-page letter with a free audio tape scotch-taped to the first page.

If you can make it past those two "hurdles" (writing a "killer" headline and a captivating introduction), the next part of writing copy ought to come more easily to you. After all, it's basically writing a story. A story about why the customer should give you his hard-earned money. Does your story... your "body copy"... compel the reader to continue reading? Compare your own copy with these tidbits from my "Motherload Collection":

     I was embarrassed. I didn't know what to do. I felt like a fool. So, what I did was, I put a fifty dollar bill on the table, mumbled something about how that should cover lunch... and... I got the hell out of there. I went back to work, closed the door to my office and buried myself in work. I didn't feel like talking to anybody, especially Lauren.

 

     In these FREE video tapes and FREE reports, Halbert teaches you the right way to use these powerful money-making weapons... plus... how to raise money without borrowing... how to get movie and TV stars to help you with your selling efforts... how to get free advertising... and... many other little-known insider secrets. Here is a brief "preview" of what you will learn when you watch these FREE tapes and read the FREE reports:

 

     That's the bad news. The good news is, before closing the doors, Halbert gave a "mini-version" of his famous "Seminar for Millionaires" and... for the first time...

 

     This is a "win-win" deal for everybody. I get new subscribers to "The Gary Halbert Letter" in the fastest way possible... and... the people (like you) who are mailing the sales letters get both "hands-on" experience... and... good profits! Here are the most common questions people are asking:

 

     Now, I've also got to tell you that, in addition to the money you've got to lay out for this incredible offer, you must also know there are two "strings" attached:

STRING #1:      You must listen to all the tapes before (yadda yadda)

STRING #2:      You must schedule your hot seat with me before (yadda   yadda)

 

     Before I tell you in detail about everything you get, I'd like to take a moment to explain why I've decided to make this offer. As I've often said, whenever (yadda yadda)

 

Here then, is a list of all the components which, except for #1, I am free to tell you about in glowing detail:
 	 
COMPONENT #1: 	Complete access to my secret network of "money
 	

people" as described above.


 	 
COMPONENT #2: 	Approximately 30 hours of video tape (VHS)
 	 
COMPONENT #3:  	Approximately 37 hours of audio tape (on cassettes).
 	 
COMPONENT #4: 	All seminar "pass out" materials.

 

     If you answered "yes" to any of the above questions, you should try Gary Halbert's "crazy idea". You'll learn all about it when you watch the FREE video tapes and you should remember this: That "crazy letter idea" brought in...

 

     But, the people Lee likes to train most of all... are fathers. Men with families to protect. Men who take very seriously the obligation to protect their wives, children, other loved ones and their homes. "The worst thing a man can face" says Lee, "is to have his family attacked and not be able to do anything about it."

 

     Until recently, nobody knew about this except certain people (like Princess Diana!) who were very rich and who lived in Europe. Now, however, some of the most famous faces in Hollywood have learned about this secret treatment and they are raving about it. In fact, Lisa showed me some "before and after" pictures of Suzanne Sommers and you wouldn't believe the difference. She looks years younger!
 
     The attendees had to pay $6,250 to get this info. They also had to pay it all up front (no credit, no discounts) and they had to spring for their own hotel and travel expenses. And, since the attendees came from all over the globe (one man came from France and brought a private interpreter; another flew in from Johannesburg, South Africa), many people paid over $15,000 to $20,000 to get this info! And, if you accept my proposition, you get it all...

Free! Free! Free! Free!

 

     STOP MESSING AROUND WITH YOUR LIFE RIGHT NOW! This is the real, no bullshit way to financial independence. My attendees are raving about this seminar even though...

 

     But, you've got to know exactly how to do it. You know, it took Halbert 15 years to discover this neat little trick... but now... by simply watching the FREE video tapes, you can learn how to use this dirt-cheap little money-maker in just 15 minutes!

 

     OK, that's it. You've just read a detailed description of what you can learn by watching the video tapes of Halbert's recent seminar and reading the exact same money-making reports he gave everybody who attended. Why is Halbert willing to send you these reports and video tapes... and... send them FREE? The answer is simple: It's a bribe! It's a shameless bribe to get you to sign up for a trial subscription to his unique marketing and money-making newsletter called "The Gary Halbert Letter".

 

And every good copywriter knows you HAVE to break up a sales letter or newspaper ad or even website copy with "eye relief". One key way to do that is with "bullets".

"Bullets" are usually very short... and very concise... hard-hitting tasty nuggets that make your reader say, "Yes! I want to know that!" or "Yes! I need to have that!" or "Yes! That describes me exactly!" And once you've got them saying, "Yes! Yes! Yes!" then, my friend, you've got them right where you want them...

Ready To Fork Over


Their Money To You!

Let's see if I can get you saying, "Yes! Yes! Yes!" with any of these bullets from my "Motherload Collection":

Are you a salesman who needs more leads?

Do you have a furniture store, a restaurant, a car dealership, a hot dog stand or some other kind of establishment you'd like to see swamped with customers?

Are you an M.D., a dentist, a chiropractor, an optometrist, a therapist or any other kind of health care professional who would like to see your waiting room just bursting with new patients?

How to use envelopes to "induce guilt".

The exact words you should use to write a money-back guarantee that... increases sales... and... reduces refunds!

The most important key to making really serious money.

Examples of winning formulas and "double customization".

A good "boilerplate" P.S. that can make your sales letters twice as effective!

The ultimate layout for an order coupon.

8 things you should have at hand before you start to write an ad or direct mail piece.

A special treatment a woman should give to her face when she turns 30!

Another special treatment a woman should give to her face when she turns 40!

Another special treatment a woman should give to her face when she turns 50!

And finally, a special treatment a woman should give her face every day after she turns 60!

Where to get a special outfit costing only $38.00 which will make a woman's body look up to 25 pounds lighter... the moment she puts it on!

Another way to bring "eye-relief" to your reader without losing him, is to throw in occasional "subheadings". These priceless jewels can accomplish one of two things:

1.   It can bring the preceding paragraph to a head... or...

2.   It can inform the reader of the next direction you are heading.

Subheadings do not always have to be short. Nor do they have to be long. Sometimes a simple statement works best. Other times a question is posed.

Want to get a sneak peek at some of the countless subheadings you'll be able to tweak and twist for your own advertising? I thought so...

I Know How You Feel

Halbert Will Not Process Your




Credit Card Charge For At Least




31-Days!


 

Why Would Anyone Pay Almost $7,000


To Attend A 3-1/2 Day Seminar?
 

How To Make Your Ad In The Yellow Pages Pull




In 400% More Business Than It Does Now...




At No Extra Charge!


 


Who Needs This Secret?


 


Here's The Clincher!


 

You Should Pass


On This Offer!
 

An Amazing Secret That Can Make




Your Newspaper Advertising Up To




750% More Profitable!


 

Your Check Will Never Be Cashed...




OR... Your Credit Card Will




Never Be Charged!


 

What Could Anyone Learn In Just A Few Hours




That Could Offer Such Outstanding Results?


 


More Than 7,300,000 Replies!

 What shocks me as I read other people's pitches, is their inability of closing the deal. Not necessarily the "give-me-your-money" ordering instructions. What I'm talking about is the segue, the transition... into why your customer should put his hands in his pockets and hand you his moola.

Here are a few examples from my "Motherload Collection":  

     If you think you can get what I have to offer from some $10.00 "Lazy Man's" book you are sadly misguided. If you think you can buy some mail order course or get all this somewhere else for $30.00 to $40.00 or some such price, you are welcome to try. However, if you sincerely want to stop messing around and finally get the facts from someone who knows his business cold, then, my friend, I'd love to meet you.

 

     How much is your subscription to my newsletter? A lot. In fact, I suspect when you see the price on the subscription form (it's inside the yellow sheet of paper enclosed with this letter) you are going to gasp.

That's OK with me... I know what I am worth! So, after you recover from your mild case of "sticker shock" try to remember:

This Offer Is 100% Risk-Free...


And... The Price Is Less
Than 1% Of The Value!

 

     Here's the deal: If you will agree to a 1-year trial subscription to his newsletter, Halbert will send you all of the video tapes and the money-making reports you've just read about... and... he'll send you all this FREE! And, to make it even better, if you decide to cancel your subscription at any time within the year, he will immediately send you a full and complete pro-rata refund... and...
He Will Still Let You Keep The Free
Video Tapes And Reports!

But no matter how compelling your headline, your body copy, your bullets, your subheads, your closing, you will always find some customers still need a little push, a little last minute nudge, to convince them your product or service is exactly what they need. And just how do you accomplish that?

I'm glad you asked.

It's called a "P.S." A "postscript" an "afterthought."

Sometimes, I'll tug one more time at my reader's greed glands by throwing in a bonus in the P.S. Other times I'll remind them of my refund policy. And a good P.S. is to let them know there is a deadline for them to act.

And speaking of "greed glands", I know by now you're all worked up and want to see a few samples of my own P.S.'s. Being the "guru of giving", here you go:

P.S.   Would you like to have a free 100-year-old silver dollar? If so, just read the enclosed "HOT FLASH" pink sheet and you'll see an extra "bonus reason" why you should give this letter your immediate attention!

  

P.S.   Of course, we always stand behind Gary's refund policy. If for any reason at all (or as he says, "for no reason at all") you decide to cancel your renewal subscription, you'll receive a full pro-rata refund for the issues not mailed to you.

  

P.S.   It would be appreciated if you would call even if you are going to pay by check. I need to know the response to this offer as soon as possible in order to make sure it doesn't get out of hand.

I guarantee, you will not find a better "swipe file" of such world-class marketing anywhere else on the entire planet. Some will be in letter format, others in newspaper format, and for those of you hot on the 'net, in website format. It's a HUGE 3-ring binder and something this huge and this awesome cannot be delivered to you via the Internet.

What you've got to remember is... no matter what format I used originally, you can take those same concepts, tactics, layout, techniques... and twist and tweak them for your own marketing pitches. Consider them your "roadmap" to riches!

For some, my "Motherload Collection Of Marketing Masterpieces!" will be a "basic training camp". These ads can get you out of the trenches and onto the playing field!

For others, my "Motherload Collection Of Marketing Masterpieces!" can get you out of the poor house and into mansions (like the ones Robin Leach featured on "Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous")!

And finally, for those who have Internet know-how... but... have been missing the boat for true independence and financial freedom, my "Motherload Collection Of Marketing Masterpieces!" can get you from being tied to your computer waiting for your ship to come in... to... sailing the 7-seas yourself any day of the week!

I'm not some college professor with a bunch of "theories" about how to write copy. I'm not an ad agency trying to get you to spend a fortune so I can get fat on a 15% commission. What I am is a down-in-the-dirt, shirt-sleeve-rolled-up marketing master who knows what it means to have to make his advertising work. I have to know my stuff because I've got a Costa Rican fiancée to keep happy, my suite in Miami to keep up, #1 Assistant Theresa to pay, and on and on and on!

Here's How To Order!

All you have to do is write your name and address and the words "Motherload" on a piece of paper and mail it to us with your check or money order (sorry, no credit cards for this hot deal). Your check needs to be made payable to "Cherrywood Publishing" in the amount of $297.00. I'm even going to "eat" the cost of shipping this box to you! You can send your order by FedEx, UPS or even "snail mail" to:

Cherrywood Publishing


3101 S.W. 34th Ave. #905-467
Ocala, FL  34474

That's all there is to it. As soon as I receive your order, I will send the 3-ring binder to you immediately by Priority, First-Class Mail.

There's nothing more I can say about this collection of masterpieces... except...

They Are Priceless! 

      

OK, remember Theresa wrote all that copy and assembled all the examples. NOT me. I SWEAR. I did none of it. It's pretty darn compelling, isn't it?

Anyway, she asked me what we should charge for "The Motherload". I think this is a priceless collection but, we're going to let it go for $297.00.

And guess what? I've decided what I'm going to charge for my seminar I'm going to hold in May, "How To WRITE A Website Pitch That Will Make You Rich!" It's $2,700.00.

And guess what else? If you buy "The Motherload" right now, I'll take $1,000.00 off the price of my seminar if you decide you want to attend.

The deal is simple. You spend only $297.00 for a priceless "swipe file"... plus... you get a $1,000 discount off the price of my seminar if you decide to attend. (NOTE: "The Motherload" all by itself should vastly improve your ability to write sales copy... even if you don't come to my seminar. But, if you do attend my seminar, you'll get information and energy that can't be transmitted in print which will put your ability to write world-class advertising copy... literally on steroids!)

Once again, it's easy to order. All you have to do is write your name and address on a piece of paper with the words "Gary's Motherload Collection" and send it immediately with your check (sorry, no credit cards accepted for this hot tamale) in the amount of $297.00 made payable to "Cherrywood Publishing" to:

Cherrywood Publishing




3101 S.W. 34th Ave. #905-467




Ocala, FL  34474

That's all there is to it. As soon as Theresa gets your check, she'll send you "The Motherload"... and... in the meantime, I'll be working as fast as I can to get the details of my upcoming seminar sent to you.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"The Best Website Copywriter
 In The World?"

P.S. I think I am the best website copywriter in the world. Again, if I'm not, don't tell me. It's a vacant title and, I'm claiming it!

P.P.S. If you want to check out John Reese AKA The 500 pound gorilla's site it is at www.marketingsecrets.com

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Difference Between Winners and Losers

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/aslz_winners_losers.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek



Dear Friend & Subscriber,

      It's almost here. The new year stretches before us like 365 blank pages of a personal diary.

      What will be written on those pages by this time next year? Will it be a tale of health, wealth, romance and wondrous prosperity? Or will those pages tell a story of misery, slime and sadness? There's only one thing for sure... whatever is written on those pages will be authored by you and me!

      Isn't that neat? Just think... each of us is writing our own personal action adventure... and...

We Can Make It
Come Out Anyway
We Want!

      More than anything now, my job has evolved to one of teaching. I teach through this newsletter, through my audio tapes and videos, through my seminars and sometimes, as a guest speaker at other people's seminars.

      And you know, every time I stand on a stage and look out at a sea of expectant faces, I ponder a bit on how some of the people in the audience are going to take the info I give them and go forth and make millions. And others... well, those others are going to remain losers no matter what I or anybody else ever teaches them. What is the difference between the winners and the losers? Is it intelligence, breeding, "connections," education... what?

      I'll tell you something: This issue of my newsletter is going to make a lot of my readers very uncomfortable. Why? Simply because I know the difference between winners and losers and, in this issue, I'm going to put the choice right dead square in your face. I'm going to give you an extraordinarily simple set of instructions and, if you do what I say, your chances of becoming extremely prosperous are going to be magnified by a factor of at least 1,000!

      But most of you are not going to follow these simple instructions. I know that already from past experience. And I even know already the reasons you're going to give for not doing what I suggest. These are the same reasons everybody (including me) nearly always gives for not doing something which will make our lives better. One of those reasons is not enough time, right?

      Well, that reason is not going to wash here because the time involved is just one lousy day. Think of it: I'm saying you only have to give up one day to give yourself a 1,000 times better shot at mega-prosperity.

      And another reason is not enough money, right?

      Sorry... that reason is not going to wash here either because the money involved will probably amount to about $8.00 to $90.00 depending on where you live. And surely, even the most directly-financially stressed of any of us can scratch up that kind of dough, can we not?

      And finally, we come to the reason that pisses me off to no end every time I hear it. It makes my blood boil. It infuriates me. And, this reason is only given by people who have no understanding whatsoever of what it is that really separates the achievers from the pathetic. This reason for not doing something is: "You don't really have to experience something to understand what it is all about." Dummies who use this kind of reasoning are people who smoke and proclaim they truly do understand they are risking lung cancer. It's just not true. Go to the Stehlin Cancer Foundation in Houston, Texas and hang out with some patients who have advanced lung cancer, all of whom got it from smoking, and ask any of them if they now believe that, in the past, when they were smoking, they truly understood what they were risking. Men can never truly understand what it is to have a baby. Non-alcoholics can never truly understand alcoholism. Straight people can never understand what it is to be gay. Gays can't hope to thoroughly comprehend what it is to be straight. And...

Spectators Can Never Understand
What It Is To Be A Player!

      Oh shut up. I know you don't like this issue but, as I see my job, every once in a while I have to risk your displeasure and give you a core message you must understand if you really, really, really want to be a winner. So, all I'm saying is, don't give me that crap about how you don't have to do the simple task I'm going to give you because you have the mysterious ability to understand something even if you don't experience it. By reading about it, maybe. Or watching it on TV. Or listening to some audio tapes. Yes, I know... you are blessed. All you have to do is go to a concert and... SHAZAM!... you can immediately understand what it takes to be a stage musician.

      Why am I blathering on about this? Let's go back to where I'm standing on that stage looking out a sea of expectant faces. You know what the hardest thing it is for a caring teacher like me to do? I'll tell you... it's not to explain something to my audience. That's relatively easy. No, my friend, the real challenge is to make my message real to that audience. You see, anyone who understands for real what it is like to have lung cancer will never smoke. And anyone who understands for real the truth of how my marketing methods can change their lives will then...

Go Do What I Teach
And Get Rich!

      Here's a little story that illustrates the difference between "intellectual" knowing and knowing knowing. A few days ago I got a call from Ben Suarez and it reminded me of what happened once when he was visiting me in L.A. We were in my boat in Marina Del Rey and slowly making our way out to the open ocean. The boat was a 23 foot center console Mako with two 115 horsepower Evinrudes clamped to the stern. Anyway, as we were sedately chugging along, Ben remarked he "knew" this boat was fast. I challenged him on that. I told him he only had a bullshit intellectual idea the boat was fast, that he really didn't know it at all. Ben said he didn't understand. I told him not to worry, soon enough I would make my point.

      Well, we get about a mile out into the Pacific Ocean and I stop the boat. "Hang on to the rail by the console," I tell Ben. "And bend your knees. And open your mouth as though you were getting ready to scream."

      He was getting ready to scream, he just didn't know it yet. So... I looked over at Ben to make sure he was all set and then I floored that sucker. Wheoo! That boat leaped forward like a big-assed bird trying to outrace a shotgun blast. We ploughed through the waves like a freight train gone wild. The wind from the slip stream tightened back the skin on our faces and made our eyeballs bulge. The ocean spray lashed out at us like a spurned lover from hell. Part of the time we were actually airborne, clear out of the water! We were slamming, sloughing, leaping and Bengieballs was screaming for all he was worth...

"Oh Lord!  Oh Jesus!  Oh Shit!
Holy Mary!  Oh My God!
Oh  My  God!   Oh  My  God...
This Boat Is Fast!"

      And then he knew. Really knew.

      And it's that difference, the difference between "intellectually" knowing and really knowing that can save your life... or make you rich.

      Enough preamble. Now it's time for me to give you your little assignment. And, after I give you this assignment, I'm going to explain the significance of it to you in minute detail. And, after my explanation, the more dense of my readers will say, "Hey yeah, this makes sense to me. I understand what he's getting at so... there's no real need for me to actually do this little exercise."

      Is that you? If so, you lose. Because you cannot understand what I'm getting at unless you do the assignment. And, if you do do the assignment...

Your Lust For Money Will
Be Energized Beyond Belief
For All The Rest Of Your Life!

      Here is your assignment: I want you to place a classified ad in the largest circulation newspaper in your area. Here is what the ad should say:

Housewives wanted to address
 envelopes at home. You must 
have a typewriter or good 
handwriting. Call 000-0000. 

      I want you to run this ad in the "help wanted" section of the classifieds exactly the way it is written above. The only acceptable change whatsoever is maybe changing the word "housewives" to "part-time workers" and you should only make this change if the newspaper forces you to. Sometimes newspapers will insist you make a change like this because advertising for housewives is sexist (they say) and shows prejudice against men.

      Anyway, running this ad is the first part of your assignment. The second part is you personally take all the calls this ad will generate. Also, you should take these calls on a single line phone.

      You know, back in the days when the likes of Ben Suarez and his brother Rick were working for me, I used to insist that key employees complete this little assignment and, nearly always, my employees thought I was a little nuts. But, since they depended on me for their paychecks, they didn't have much choice in the matter and here is what would always happen... which will also happen when you do this assignment:

1.	First, you will be awakened before dawn by someone answering the ad.
2.	By 7 a.m. or 8 a.m. your phone will be ringing with some frequency.
3.	By 10 a.m. you will learn not to hang-up the phone but to merely depress the disconnect button because, as soon as you release the button, the phone will ring again.
4.	The phone will continue to ring for days and, although I'm only asking you personally take the calls for just 1-day, by the time your phone stops ringing entirely (some two weeks later) you will have received hundreds of calls.
5.	Some of the callers will ring back twice, three times and more.

      Etc.

      So what's the point? Ah, not so fast, my friend. Before I get to that, you're going to have to endure even more of my fatuous drivel. Be patient. This drivel is relevant.

      Ready? OK. Once upon a time when I was publishing this newsletter from Los Angeles, I got a call from one of my subscribers who was selling a very high-priced service to companies who were (or should be) doing business with Pacific Rim countries. "How to get the attention of these companies?" that was their question.

      "Do this," I says. "Go to Deak-Perrara and get some paper currency from each of the Pacific Rim countries. Get the lowest denomination bills you can. Then put a bill from each different country into a bundle and attach that bundle of bills to the top of the first page of a personally-typed letter. The letter should be dated, have an inside address, and be sent first-class or better yet, via Federal Express. The letter should begin by telling the recipient to hold that bundle of money in one hand while he holds the letter in the other hand and reads it. The letter should go on to say the money the reader is holding in his hand is only a microscopic sample of the money he and his company is missing out on by not using the firm the writer of the letter works for to help capture a share of the Pacific Rim market."

      My callers (there were two of them) were elated. They sang my praises. They said this was a great idea.

      Time passes. About a month later they ring back wanting to talk some more and perhaps pick up another good idea or two. "How did that last mailing go?" I asked. "The one where you attached the bundle of bills?"

      "Oh, we haven't gotten around to that yet," they say. "But we think it was an exciting idea and we'd like to pick your brain some more."

      "No way," I said to them. "I'm going to hang up and, quite frankly, I have no interest in ever talking to you again!"

      They couldn't believe it. How could I be so insufferable? It was easy. You see, I am often very short with people who approach me as players and then I find out they are really only voyeurs. Listen, you want to know what is one of the major differences between winners and losers? It is simply...

Movement!

      Winners go out and get going before they know all the answers or even most of the answers. Losers will study a problem endlessly to make sure they don't do anything "rash." Would you like to know a few "clues" that suggest the person you're talking with probably is not now nor ever will be an effective money-making machine? OK, I'll tell you. But remember these signs are not infallible; there are exceptions. However, whenever you come across one of these signs, at the very least, a little red flag should pop up in your mind to warn you that maybe (probably) you are talking to a time-waster.

Clue #1.	The person has a college degree beyond that of a B.S.

      Look, college doesn't teach anyone how to make money. In fact, from that point-of-view, a college education has a negative value. And, of course, a smart student will learn this long before four years are up. However, a "voyeur," someone who wants to hide-out from life, can escape reality for years by going after a master's or a doctorate degree.

      But wait. You've always heard college-educated people earn more money than non-college-educated people, right? Sure, that is true in general but, for that observation to be correct, it should be stated thusly:

A Non-Player With A
College Degree Will Usually
Make More Money Than
Another Non-Player Without One

      Of course, players often make 100 times or 1,000 times or 10,000 times more than non-players with or without degrees! You know, once upon a time, a salt-of-the-earth businessman (not me) was at a society cocktail party when the hostess found out he didn't have a college degree and expressed her condolences.

      "Oh, don't worry," replied the businessman, "it's really OK. You see, I've got about 150 guys with degrees working for me!"

Clue #2:	The person knows how to operate a personal computer.

      I'll admit there are a few exceptions but, for the most part, anyone who knows how to run a PC is a clerk. Usually, this is such a person that likes to bury himself in technological effluvium in order to avoid the exhilarating, exciting and terrifying real work of a player which is, of course... SELLING!

      You know, whenever someone starts bragging to me about how well his operation is computerized, I groan inwardly because it is almost certain that person has totally neglected the truly important aspects of his business.

      Know this: For the most part, computers are the concern of clerks, typists, underlings and children... not players!

Clue #3:	The person has to "talk-it-over" with someone else before he can commence movement.

      This could be his spouse, his partner, his banker, his lawyer, his Daddy, his Mommy or whomever. This is the kind of person who aligns himself with other non-players because he doesn't realize...

Two Or More Sissies Can
Never Equal 1-Pair Of Testicles!

      And by the way, these days, I see a lot of women who have more balls than the sorry men in their lives.

Clue #4:...	

      No wait! I'm getting off track here! Enough about clues. Let's see, what was supposed to be the point of this newsletter anyway? Oh yeah, I was going to tell you the reason you should run that little ad for housewives to address envelopes. Look, that ad, including the phone number, contains only 17 words. Yet, because it is so "on-target," because it penetrates precisely into the profound needs and desires of a huge segment of population... that little ad is a button that starts up a huge engine of desire. It will cause a "river-of-need" to be diverted onto your property. What that means, of course, is you can harness the power of that river to achieve your own noble objectives. (Such as making lots of money.) But you will never fully understand that river (and thus be able to harness its power) until you become intimate with it. That's why you have to take the calls yourself. So, when you listen to the callers, you can hear how much, how very much, they want this kind of work. You will be able to feel their need, to identify with it. To understand it... for real.

      And something will change in you, my friend. All of a sudden you will know (truly know) that words on paper really can produce results! And once you know that, really know it, this business of direct response begins to get very exciting. Your fungola-seeking antennae will begin to function better. You'll become "tuned-in" to looking for other "pockets-of-needs." And, because you have experienced this one first-hand, then you will be able to identify another when you come across it. No longer will you see an overweight person as just another porker. No, you will see that person as a fat, little, walking-talking cash register. No longer will you see the coming depression as a threat. No, you will begin to realize that... if you can find the right combination of words to direct the emotion generated by the economic slump... then maybe you can do so in a manner which will enrich and profit you and others. What I'm saying is...

If You Do What I Say And Let This
Change Take Place Inside You Then, You
Will Be Automatically More Tuned-In To
"Pockets-Of-Need" And Your Mind
Will Begin To Show You How To Pick
Those Pockets In An Ethical Way
That Makes You Rich!

      Look, I'm having trouble with this. I'm not explaining it very well. Words are inadequate. You literally have to experience what I'm talking about to be able to understand. So... if you really want to give yourself a shot at the brass ring, then...

Run The Damn Ad!

          

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	Gary C. Halbert
(a porker with a sense of humor who doesn't want nasty letters from other porkers without one)

 

P.S. 	

   Nuts, I'm not satisfied yet. This is one of the most important things I've ever tried to communicate to you and I  have the feeling you think I'm looney tunes. Look, what stops people from doing something is often the simple fact they don't know... really know... it can be done.

   Case in point: For over a hundred years nobody was able to run a mile in under four minutes. No one "really knew" it could be done. Then, Roger Bannister did it and lo and behold...

  Dozens Of Other People Did 
It Right After Him!

  Because now they knew it could be done.


P.S.#2	

  I had a very nice visit recently from Larry Brown, one of my Lifetime subscribers who lives in some dreadful place (Michigan) where the sun don't shine. (By the way, after God created earth, whenever he decided a certain part of it was fit for human habitation, he planted palm trees so we'd know where to settle down.) Anyway, like I said, it was nice spending a few days with Larry except he drove me crazy by constantly insulting the mother of some guy named Lee who also lives up there in no-man's land. Whatever. In any case, one day we are out on the mighty Original Sea Hunt and I give Larry the wheel (we were up in the tuna tower) and I go below to take a nap. Larry couldn't believe it. Not only had he never driven a boat like mine before, he also had never even been out in the ocean. Well, guess what he discovered? (1) He discovered he could run the boat. Even without hardly any preparation. (2) He discovered it was both terrifying and exciting. (3) He discovered when it got rough (like when the water started coming over my 18 foot tower) he could get help.

Look, I'm going to take a liberty here and give you Larry's phone number. It's (313) 476-9645 and, if you doubt the importance of the message in this issue...  call Larry and ask him if he could ever possibly have understood what it is like to run a small boat out in rough water in the Gulfstream (only 70 miles from Cuba)... without actually doing it! (There's a moral here somewhere.)


P.S.#3	I almost never let anyone mail to my subscribers but, I've made an exception. One of the best copywriters I've ever met is a guy named Brad Antin who has been a tremendous help at my seminars. Anyway, you'll soon get a pitch from him for a 900# seminar in Las Vegas and, if you're interested in this area, give it your consideration.
P.S.#4	Hire at least one of the people who answer your help wanted ad. After all, you can always use someone to address envelopes if you're running a real direct response business, now can't you? 

Peace.


Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Why I Am The Best Copywriter Alive (I'm Even Better Than The Ones Who Are Dead)!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zgkl_best_copywriter.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek 

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

      Last month I promised this month I would teach you the real art of writing copy.

      I am now about to keep that promise.

      Pay careful attention. The ability to write ads and/or letters that sell is by far the most wonderful money-making skill you could ever hope to acquire. If you master this skill you should never again have to worry about money. The ability to write copy that brings in orders on a profitable basis is as rare as hen's teeth. And, if you can do it, I mean really do it, you can virtually write your own ticket.

      Take me, for example. I turn down at least 9 out of 10 people who want to work with me, and my office currently has standing orders for enough work to keep me and my staff busy non-stop for the next two years. I can earn my living virtually anywhere as long as I can get my hands on a piece of paper and a ball point pen or a pencil or a crayon. I can do my thing on a boat, in a prison cell, in a submarine and probably, even on the moon. If I chose to work a regular 40-hour week, I'd probably earn at least 10 to 15 million dollars a year. I do not choose to work that hard. I spend far more hours on my boat than I do at my desk (I don't even have one anymore -- I usually work at my kitchen table) and yet, it would be upsetting to me if I had a month where I earned less than $100,000.00.

      I have zero competition. It's not that there aren't any other good copywriters. No, it's just there are so incredibly few of us that, mostly, we are friendly and exchange ideas and info freely.

      Which brings me to a crucial point: If you are in need of truly world-class copywriting...

You Are Probably Going To Have To
Learn To Do It Yourself!

      You see, the few of us who really can do it (write copy that sells) are so much in demand, you can't even think about hiring us unless you are willing to spend an arm and a leg. And, even then... you'll still have to wait in line.

      Besides that, we're an arrogant, surly lot most often more interested in dwelling on our divine wonderfulness than we are slaving away on your lowly project.

      That's the bad news. The good news is... you really can learn to do it yourself if you've got (and you do) a good-hearted soul like me who is willing to debunk the subject and take the mystery out of it for you.

      Gentlemen... start your engines. You are, as promised, about to learn the real art of writing copy!

      Step One is to create a "FACT SHEET" about that which you want to sell. So, let's write some world-class copy (in this case, a sales letter) about a product with which you are very familiar. Let's write an ad about your car. Or maybe about your house. Or your spouse. Or about you. I don't care what it is, I just care that, for now, you pick something you know a lot about. Now, let me tell you something important...

When It Comes To Writing Copy, Far Too Much
Attention Is Paid To The Actual Writing And
Far Too Little Is Paid To Ferreting Out Facts
About That Which The Copywriter Is Trying To Sell!

      If you do your research properly, if you do enough "prep," your ads and sales letters will almost write themselves. It's like painting a boat. The actual painting is easy; the hard part is the faring (preparation) or getting the boat ready to be painted.

      OK, let's say you've chosen to write a sales message about your car. Let's get going on that Fact Sheet. Make it long. Make it detailed. Make it complete. What make is your car? What model? What color? How much does it weigh? How many miles on it? What kind of tires? What's their condition? What's the interior like? How many miles per gallon? How much horsepower? How much did you pay for it? Who's been driving it? What kind of treatment has it received? Did it sleep in a garage or on the street? Where has it been driven? In the salt-free South or the metal eating highways of Ohio?

      And so on.

      Here's something else: Make sure you've got it straight in your mind what you are creating is a confidential fact sheet. That way, you'll be less likely to hold back what you consider to be the "bad stuff" which, as we shall see later, can be very useful.

      Please take a lot of time with this. Most amateur "would be" copywriters don't do this step at all and, even most "pros" don't take nearly enough time with it. Be redundant. Put in too much. You should literally saturate that CONFIDENTIAL FACT SHEET with every scrap of info about your car you can obtain.

      Now, let's say you're finished with this step and your Fact Sheet is as humongous as you can make it... say maybe 15-pages long. We are now ready for Step Two which is the creation of...

A Benefit List

      What we do here is we go over our Fact Sheet very carefully and we translate the facts therein to benefits whenever we can. By the way, are you clear in your mind about the difference between a fact and a benefit? A fact is simply that... a fact about your product. Like the fact your car has 350 horsepower, or the fact it is painted a bright red. A benefit is what your product will do for the buyer. Let's say your car is heavy, it weighs maybe 4,000 pounds. That's a fact. Well, it seems to me that fact could translate to at least two benefits: (1) safety, a heavy car offering more protection in a wreck than a lighter one; and (2) comfort, as a heavy car generally yields a smoother ride.

      What's that? You say your car is not heavy at all? In fact, it's quite light? OK, it seems to me that probably translates to a believable reason why your car gets great gas mileage.

      It's a snazzy red convertible? Perhaps that translates to the "benefit" of the owner getting a lot of attention from young ladies or other folks he'd like to impress.

      It's a sedate grey sedan? Perhaps that translates to the "benefit" of giving the buyer a dignified, no-nonsense impression. Very useful when trying to impress out-of-town clients with your trustworthiness and respectability.

      Here are more examples of how facts can translate to benefits:

FACT 

l    car gets 40 miles
      per gallon  

	

BENEFIT

l     buy saves money, gets
       very cheap transportation                             




l  car has been coated 
      with an effective 
     rust-guard treatment 

	

l     car will last longer;
       be worth more money at
       trade-in time




l    car is painted a bright, 
      vivid orange

	

l  safety; easiest color to
      see; very unlikely anyone
      will crash into owner
      because they didn't see 
      his car




l    car has 6,000 horsepower

	

l     safety; will accelerate
      like crazy and let you
      get out of tight,
      dangerous situations




*    and so on   

	

*     etc., etc.

      Now, I'd like to emphasize something here: The Fact Sheet about your car should contain dozens and, preferably, even hundreds of facts about your car. Of course, since this is a confidential fact Sheet, not all of these facts will be positive and therefore, not every fact will translate to a benefit. However, if you do your homework... I mean really do it... you should, at this point, have a Benefit List that contains, at least, several dozen benefits.

      Onward to Step Three: What you need to do next is to start thinking about your offer. Your offer (think of it as a business proposition) is by far the most important element in the entire sales message we are constructing here. The most common offer (proposition) of all goes something like this...

If You Will Give Me X Amount Of
Dollars, I Will Give You X Product
Or X Service In Return.

      Give me $18,000 and I'll give you a new Caddy. Give me $.25 and I'll give you a copy of the "Miami Herald." Give me $35,000 and 10% of your gross sales and I'll write an ad for you. Give me $7.50 and I'll mow your lawn. Give me $30.00 per hour and I'll work on your boat. Etc., etc.

      Let's back up to "If you give me $18,000, I'll give you a new Caddy" and see if we can't "sweeten" that offer. How about this:

I'll Sell You This New Caddy For
$18,000 And I'll Let You Drive It
For A Week Free Before You Decide
Whether Or Not To Buy It!

Or this:

I'll Sell You This New Caddy For
$18,000 And I'll Let You Drive It
For A Week Free Before You Decide To
Buy It... Plus, You Don't Have To Pay
Me For It All At Once; You Can Pay Me
Over A Period Of Five Years!

      And so on. You should think more about how to "sweeten" your offer than any other aspect of writing copy. Think about what you are selling. How would you like to buy it? Would you want a free trial? A huge and legitimate discount? Easy payments? A money-back guarantee? Would you like a free gift with your purchase like a color TV or a toaster oven? A night on the town with Kim Bassinger or Paul Newman? A free Florida vacation?

      Know this: Strong copy will not overcome a weak offer but..

In Many Cases, A Strong Offer Will
Succeed In Spite Of Weak Copy Written
By Marketing Morons!

      In any case, I want you to come up with the most powerful offer you can and reduce it to writing. It should be no more than a few lines (you should be able to get it all on the back of an envelope) and don't worry about getting it right (writing-wise), just get it down on paper. It'll probably read something like this...

            "Gary, I'll sell you my 2-year-old Dodge pick-up for only $6,500.00 and I'll let you drive it for a week free before you decide to buy it. I'll also give you 5-years to pay me. Not only that, I'll throw in a free diving trip to the Bahamas for you and Paulette and I'll personally pay for ever drop of gas you use for the first 10,000 miles you drive!"

      Whew! Now that sounds like a deal, doesn't it? Hark unto me, Buckwheat: Writing "copy" is less than 1/10 as important as learning to think about new offers and getting them down on paper as I just did. I can't say it often enough or strongly enough...

It Is The Deal... The Offer... The Proposition
You Are Making That Is The Heart And Soul
Of Great Copywriting!

      Anywho, by now you should have three different "tools" you have created with your very own handwriting:

 A very detailed CONFIDENTIAL FACT SHEET.

A very detailed LIST OF BENEFITS.

A DEAL SHEET which contains the strongest proposition you can offer which has       been reduced to writing.

      Now, armed with these three important tools, is it time for us to finally start writing some copy? No. No. No-ooo. No! Look here, friend, we've only just begun our "prep"! What we're going to do next is, we are going to program our neural, cerebral infra-network (our mental writing) with what it feels like to write world-class copy. OK, remember how, in several of my past issues, I've kept at you to create a "swipe file" of good ads, sales letters and so on? Not to mention all those headline cards? You do remember? Good! Here's where it starts to pay off. What I want you to do now is go to your swipe file and pull out the best ads and sales letters in your collection that are selling automobiles. And what you do next is...

      WAIT A MINUTE! What in the world am I hearing? You say you don't have a box of headline cards? You say you don't have a swipe file with car ads or any other type of ads or sales letters? Are you trying to tell me you thought all you had to do was turn on your word processor and, in the middle of the night, the tooth fairy would come and write your copy for you?

      Oh, you poor misguided soul! Are you beginning to see that's not the way it works? That the essence of writing good copy is careful preparation and hard work?

      OK, OK, if you've at least learned that much, then ol' good-hearted Guru Gary is willing to bail you out again. But please, let's not make this a habit. I'm very serious when I exhort you to assemble your own personal "copywriting tool kit" which should consist of a collection of headline cards, good ads, good sales letters, good TV commercials, good ideas, good offers, etc.

Do This! It Is The Raw Material From
Which Mucho Fungolas Can Be Made!*

      Let us press on. I am about to reprint here, three of the best sales pitches ever written to sell automobiles. The first is a letter written by a truly legendary marketing man whom I miss very dearly. I'm talking about the late Joe Karbo and what I'm reproducing here is a sample letter that appears in his little masterpiece of a book (it sold 3,000,000 copies) called "The Lazy Man's Way To Riches." By the way, your personal library should definitely contain a copy of this incredible $10.00 classic and you can get one by calling Jay Flanagan at (714) 897-7772. (Say "hello" to him for me when you call.)

      The second "sales-pitch-in-print" I'm reproducing here was written by another legend who is one of the very few advertising men alive today who commands my total respect. I'm talking about David Ogilvy and the ad I'm reproducing sold out the entire U.S. inventory of Rolls Royce automobiles when it ran.

      The third little gem of an automobile sales-pitch-in-print was written by another guy who is also a legend. (A legend in his own mind, that is.) I'm talking about me and the letter I'm reproducing here had a very short lifespan because...

After Mailing It One Time, The Client
Couldn't Get Enough Cars To Sell!

      Let's mush on. What you must do now is not just read these classics. No, you need to copy them word-for-word in your own handwriting. If you are really serious about becoming a master copywriter, you will do this over and over. The idea here is not for you to steal these promotions but rather, to be influenced by them. You want good writing to become one of your automatic skills and rewriting superb ads and sales letters in your very own hand is the best way in the world to do this.

      OK, here they are. Now, go for it!

Joe Karbo's "Cadillac" Letter




 

Dear Friend,

      I have a new Cadillac that I got to sell because I'm leaving for the 
Service next week. It cost me $14,000 and has only 732 miles on it.
Rather than sell it to some thief of a car dealer or going to the trouble of
 advertising, I'll let you have it for $7,000.

      If you don't have the cash, don't worry about it because I only owe 
the $7,000 and you can take over my payments which are about $275 a 
month.

      You know I drive careful, but I'd feel better if you'd have your 
mechanic check it out before you buy. In fact if you'd like to drive it for a 
couple of days, I'll be glad to deliver it to you with a full tank of gas. And if 
you don't like the car, I'll take it back and you've had a free ride. No 
obligation.

      One thing -- it's an awful green color (but you could have it 
painted).

      If you're interested, call me at (714) 826-1313 between 7 and 9 
tonight.

                                                              Your friend,
 

                                                              Roger Atbury  

David Ogilvy's "Rolls Royce" Ad


(original ad 
had a picture
 of a luxurious 
Rolls-Royce) 

"At 60 miles an hour the loudest noise in this
new Rolls-Royce comes from the electric clock" 

What makes Rolls-Royce the best car in the world? "There is really no magic about it --
it is merely patient attention to detail," says an eminent Rolls-Royce engineer. 

1. "At 60 miles an hour the loudest noise comes from the electric clock," reports the Technical Editor of THE MOTOR. Three mufflers tune out sound frequencies--acoustically.

2. Every Rolls-Royce engine is run for seven hours at full throttle before installation, and each car is test-driven for hundreds of miles over varying road surfaces.

3. The Rolls-Royce is designed as an owner-driven car. It is eighteen inches shorter than the largest domestic cars.

4. The car has power steering, power brakes, and automatic gear-shift. It is very easy to drive and to park. No chauffeur required.

5. The finished car spends a week in the final test-shop being fine-tuned. Here it is subjected to 98 separate ordeals. For example, the engineers use a stethoscope to listen for axle-whine.

6. The Rolls-Royce is guaranteed for 

	three years. With a new network of dealers and parts-depots from Coast to Coast, service is no problem. 

7. The Rolls-Royce radiator has never changed, except that when Sir Henry Royce died in 1933 the monogram RR was changed from red to black.

8. The coachwork is given five coats of primer paint, and hand rubbed between each coat, before nine coats of finishing paint go on.

9. By moving a switch on the steering column, you can adjust the shock-absorbers to suit road conditions.

10. A picnic table, veneered in French walnut, slides out from under the dash. Two more swing out behind the front seats.

11. You can get such optional extras as an Espresso coffee-making machine, a dictating machine, a bed, hot and cold water for washing, an electric razor or a telephone.

	

12. There are three separate systems of power brakes, two hydraulic and one mechanical. Damage to one will not affect the others. The Rolls-Royce is a very safe car--and also a very lively car. It cruises serenely at eight-five. Top speed is in excess of 100 m.p.h.

13. The Bentley is made by Rolls-Royce. Except for the radiators, they are identical motor cars, manufactured by the same engineers in the same works. People who feel diffident about driving a Rolls-Royce can buy a Bentley.

PRICE. The Rolls-Royce illustrated in this advertisement - f.o.b. principal ports of entry - costs $13,995.

        If you would like the rewarding experience of driving a Rolls-Royce or Bentley, write or telephone to one of the dealers listed on opposite page.

Rolls-Royce, Inc., 10 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N.Y. Circle 5-1144. 

Guru Gary's "Rolls Royce" Letter

  Dear Friend,

  Please take a look at the photograph I am sending you with this letter.

  What you are looking at is a picture of a Rolls Royce Silver Shadow I can sell you so cheaply you will find it hard to believe!

  Why is this car so inexpensive? Actually, there are three reasons and each of them is equally important: First of all, I am not a "used car dealer" in the usual sense of the word. No. What I do is specialize in absolutely nothing but pre-owned Rolls Royces and I have developed a remarkable way to get these cars into the country at a cost so low it will take your breath away!

  And secondly, if you so desire, I have worked out a way to finance cars over a period of four to five years at a very favorable rate of interest.

  And thirdly, I am not overwhelmingly greedy. That's important. You see, many people in the car business are only in it for the money, but that's not true with me. And, as a matter of fact, it's not true of anybody that is really in love with the Rolls Royce motor car.

  A Rolls Royce is different. It is more than just a car; it is a legend. When you drive one, everybody knows you are special. You are admired by women and envied by men. Quite frankly, there is nothing else in the entire world that will give you the instant status as sitting behind the wheel of your very own "Queen of the Road."

  Let's face it. As the owner of a late model automobile, you already know the value of owning and driving a fine motor car, so my question to you is:

Why not go all the way?

  With the unbelievably low price I can offer plus the 100% financing I can arrange, it might even be cheaper to drive a Rolls than the car you now have!

  Please call me as soon as you read this letter. Right now, I only have five of these wonderful bargains and they won't last long!

My number is 213/555-1234

                                                            Sincerely,

                                                             Joe Schmidlapper

P. S.  A Rolls Royce lives forever.  The one you drive today
               could be driven by your grandchildren.

P.P.S. There is another "mystery reason" why I can sell these 
                Rolls Royces so cheaply, but I would prefer not to reveal
                it until we talk on the phone.  Thank you.

  All done? Man oh man, I've been working you to death, haven't I? Hey listen, I never said it was easy, right? But I'll tell you what: Making millions with nothing but a few legal pads and some ball point pens in-between fishing and diving in the Florida Keys sure beats creating drivel for some stupid ad agency or licking boots at IBM!

      And, what should you do next? Actually, this next step is one of the most important of all and you're going to love this one because...

What You Need To Do Now Is
Take A Break!

      I'm serious. Creating great advertising is not a straight-line process. 99% of it is truly perspiration but the other (and vital) 1% is inspiration and...

Inspiration Comes, Most Often,
When You Are Not Looking For It!

      Now, let's be real. So far, you haven't done any of what I've recommended because, after all, you're just now finishing up reading this newsletter.

      Fair enough. But you've got something you want to sell. I know you do because you wouldn't be so intently focused on what I'm writing here if that were not so.

      Maybe it's not a car. But, whatever it is, I'm going to make you a promise: If you really do everything I've written about in this letter... in other words... if you examine closely what it is you want to sell... and... if you create a comprehensive and detailed CONFIDENTIAL FACT SHEET... and... if from that Fact Sheet you create a detailed list of BENEFITS... and... after that you reduce to writing the strongest (and all-important) OFFER you can possibly make... and... after that, you copy out IN YOUR OWN HANDWRITING the three promotions I've reprinted here...

      Then, all you have to do (and remember, this is a crucial part of the process) is take a break and wait for my next month's issue because then I'm going to show you how to take all this "ammo" and lash it together in such a powerful way it will make all your prospective buyers crawl out of the woodwork and almost beg you to take their money!

      Don't scoff. I do this stuff every day and I do it better than anyone else alive. So, tune in next month and I'll give you the "finishing touches" to this process so you can do it too!  

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

P.S.  My staff keeps telling me I should take off my mask and fins and come out of the water long enough to teach a "Copywriting Workshop" for my subscribers. Do you think this would be a good idea? If so, drop us a note or give us a jingle (213) 273-7053 and let us know. I'm not asking for commitment here, just some feedback.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Channeling The Head Shitweasel By John Carlton

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2009/John%20Carlton%2003_31_09/Channeling_The_Head_Shitweasel.htm

Channeling The Head Shitweasel

From:
John Carlton
Reno, NV
Monday, 10:05pm

Howdyï¿½

Here's something I'm almost certain that Gary never wrote aboutï¿½

ï¿½ and yet it's critically important to every effort you (or anyone else) make to learn something. Anything. Especially the stuff that causes money to be hurled at you in great gleaming piles.

I believe that's why Kevin Halbert asked me to post on it tonight.

Let me set this story up for you:

First, you need to understand just how tight Gary and I were.

Longtime readers of this site should already know this part of the tale.

I first met Gary at Jay Abraham's divorce party in the mid-80s, soon after his Boron vacation and while he was still wooing Paulette. (Yes, this was a freaking long time ago.)

I'd heard of him (copies of his newsletter had been smuggled to my inbox), but we had never crossed paths. So I went up to introduce myself.

He was rude, obnoxious and arrogantï¿½

ï¿½ and I liked him immediately.

Within a few months he hired me to come work with him. I have a novel's-worth of adventures stemming just from that first year in the cluttered offices on Sunset Blvd in North Hollywood (across from the Roxy, a block from the Playboy building).

We soon became friends, as well as business colleaguesï¿½ and we didn't go more than a few days between long talks for the next 20 years. (I last spoke to him the Friday before he left us for that big Algonquin Table In The Sky.)

Being thick as thieves like that, we settled into a friendship with clearly defined roles.

Me: Road-dog, ghostwriter, sidekick and confidant. Him: Silver-backed 800-pound alpha gorilla, chaos-instigator, trouble-magnetï¿½ and confidant.

We shared secrets that, even now, I choose not to reveal.

When Life sucker-punched me with massive family problemsï¿½ Gary was the only friend who called me every day, willing to soak up some of the grief and share my load. He watched my back, and I watched his.

Once, during perhaps the darkest hours of his career, I hauled out the tough-love, and said "Goddamit, you're Gary Halbert." Cuz he was.

He just forgot, sometimes.

That became one his favorite sayings, both in jest, and in deadly seriousness as the road grew rocky and he needed a reminder of just how big a force of nature he truly was.

Basically, we relied on each other for no-bullshit reality checks.

However, it was easily the most unique relationship I've ever been in, heard about, or know of. We had very little in common, really, in our backgrounds except for growing up poor and clueless, and being pissed off about it.

He was an Eisenhower kid from the 1950s, and my outlook was tempered in the swinging sixties. I played school dances with cocky garage bands and grew my hair long, while he hustled pool for date money, did a tour in the Army and got married young.

But we clicked where it counted -- in critical thinking, in loving rock & roll and advertising, and in possessing truly sick and evil senses of humor.

And -- here's the point of all this -- in our approach to learning and teaching.

See, we both had radically different styles that required some hard work to reconcile.

He clearly wanted to teach me what he knew, and I clearly craved learning it.

But at first, it was like we were from different planets. He wrote everything out longhand, and I worked on a keyboard and computer.

He obsessed on USPs, offers and headlines for daysï¿½ often doing something I called "looping": He would have the same conversation with you, sometimes a dozen timesï¿½ as if a tape loop were going around in his brain.

(On more than a few occasions, I had to take aside a client or new member of our little circle, and tell him that, no, he wasn't going crazy -- he really did just listen to the same exact conversation with Gary he'd heard an hour earlier, and probably the evening before, too.)

(However, if you paid very close attention, the loop would mutate subtly each time around. The changes were almost imperceptible, but this was Gary's very exacting and very precise way of working out the perfect angle, headline or USP.)

(Once I realized the process, I never interrupted him. Nearly all of the famous stuff he produced while I knew him was created through this laborious repetition and minute manipulation.)

Me? I used checklists, based on my front-line experience in advertising and marketing. My "gun to the head" philosophy supported well-thought-out decisions, but they were made much faster. (That philosophy: With a gun to my head that would go off if the piece didn't become the controlï¿½ would I use that word? That USP? That headline? And so on, through every choice in the writing process. That attitude helped me rocket up the ranks of "A List" freelancers before I met Gary.)

We were like the hare and tortoise.

So, at first, Gary was extremely frustrated trying to teach me stuff. And I was just as frustrated, because his methods didn't jive with my style of learning.

And yetï¿½ we worked it out.

He learned how to adapt to my learning style, and I met him halfway by being a chameleon, and pondering more obsessively.

And vice versa. We learned from, and taught stuff to, each other for the next two decades.

What's this got to do with you?

Everything, if you're still learning stuff. (And only fools and idiots believe the learning ever stops in life or business. The best continue to learn and absorb and experience right up to the point their ticket is punched.)

See, Gary and I taught each otherï¿½ how to teach outside of our boxes.

This is not a small thing.

Back during the hey-day of our marketing seminars -- when we hosting those circus-like spectaculars almost monthly, and there was almost zero competition from other guru's -- we plunged eagerly into the task of forcing, tricking, cajoling and bribing people to "get" what we wanted them to learn.

We did this for years. And we challenged ourselves at every turnï¿½

ï¿½ because the stark evidence of our own differences in learning proved that there truly was more than one way to skin a cat.

Today, in the Brave New World of the Web, you can't spit into the virtual mob of marketers online without hitting multiple folks who present themselves as a "teacher".

Hey, for the most part, this is a great development. The world needs more teachers. It's a noble profession. The need for mentoring is vast and unquenchable.

Howeverï¿½

ï¿½ like walking onto a used car lot, you need to be aware of the pitfalls before deciding to hand your brain over to someone who claims they can teach you something.

It is freaking HARD to teach well. And I'm not talking about stuff like being patient, or knowing Eriksonian information-absorption models, either.

Naw.

Teaching is hard because -- to be a worthwhile teacher -- you need to have gorged on experience, had your ass kicked by Hard Knocks, and seen all sides and heard all arguments through trial-and-error.

For years. Decades, even.

Many of the "teachers" I see online are like someone who faced a single pitch from Roger Clemens, closed their eyes, and somehow made contact with a fastball for a hit.

Then, they laid down their bat, never again to face another pitchï¿½

ï¿½ and instead proclaimed themselves one of the greatest batters in history (batting average of 1,000!), suddenly qualified to teach others how to play baseball.

I wish this metaphor was at least a little bit ridiculous.

But it's not.

Most "teachers" out in the marketing, advertising and copywriting worldï¿½ are nothing more than glorified rookies, trying to substitute book-learning for actual experience.

Not good.

Gary loved to teach. He had a style when he began his newsletter, and it was a damn good oneï¿½ but it evolved through the years.

I wish he was still around for many selfish reasonsï¿½ but also because as a teacher he was just getting better and betterï¿½ because he brought more and more experience to the table every time.

I do not put myself in the same class as Halbert.

God broke the mold after Gary was born, and we will not see another man even remotely like him again. Anyone pretending to ascend to the position Gary held in the world of wisdom and knowledge is a phony, and deserves scorn and exile.

I have, however, continued to follow my love of teaching. I no longer have The Big Ugly Guy around to encourage me, or back me up, or share insights with.

All I offer anyone is my battle scars from 25 years in the front-line trenches of businessï¿½ and the 20 accompanying years of teaching, studying teaching, and (thanks to Gary's influence) obsessing and looping on teaching.

There are not an infinite number of different learning "styles". I may come up with a more precise number at some pointï¿½ but I can assure you there are over a dozen. This includes folks who learn best by audioï¿½ or by visual stuff like videoï¿½ or strictly by the written wordï¿½ or through lectures (with and without note taking)ï¿½ and all the subtle and not-so-subtle combinations of these preferences.

This is why I still click with so many people who have run into brick walls trying to learn how to write killer sales copy from other sources.

It's not about raw multi-media presentations. Or about the guru's career highlights.

Nope.

Good teaching only happens when the guy you allow inside your head knows what the hell he's talking aboutï¿½ and has the chops, the experience, the instinct, and the OBSESSIONS that create a good teacher.

"Guru", I've been told, translates as "teacher".

When I was coming up through the ranks, no one dared refer to themselves as a guru. You earned the title only after your reputation and your ability to actually teach reached critical mass. Other people called you a guru. You never took on the handle yourself.

I'm not putting anyone down here. Times change. As a musician who spent 10,000 hours getting good at playing rock, I'm more than a little peeved at phenomenons like "Guitar Hero" and karaokeï¿½ where you just pretend you know what you're doing, and people are astounded and applaud and think it's just great.

God, the bullshit just piles up deeper and deeper, doesn't it.

No, if you find a self-annointed guru you can actually learn from, go for it.

And good luck to you.

And I'll just shake my head, and continue on as a proud shitweasel, channeling Gary's love of doing the job right.

You can sample what I'm talking about, you know, right now, at my site.

Click Here To Go There Now

That's the blog where we're giving away all this free teaching material for hungry entrepreneurs and business owners, while my staff gears up for another round of serious mentoring through my Simple Writing System.

As always, there is no obligation for grabbing this free information, and I urge you to put it to use in your life and your businessï¿½ and enjoy the major bucks and happiness it has been proven to provide.

Teaching rocks. When it's done right.

Stay frosty,

John Carlton








Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List




Copyright ï¿½ 2009 Nomax Publishing Inc.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Make Your Ad In The Yellow Pages Pull In 400% More Business Than It Does Now- At No Extra Charge

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/a_yellow_pages.htm

From:
Jewfish Creek
 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

 

      Whenever someone opens the yellow pages, there are two things you can count on:

#1.	That person is ready to buy.
#2.	That person is undecided as to which establishment he should patronize.

 

      O.K., let's suppose you are a chiropractor. Here in L.A., when I look under "chiropractors" I find there are 34 different listings. And, out of those 34, 12 of those doctors have gone to the additional expense of taking out a display ad. Their ads vary in size. The smallest one is 1-7/8 by 2 inches and the largest is 8 by 5 inches. Now, before I go on, I want you to go ahead and look at (and read) those 7 ads which I have reproduced.

 

 

      Alright, you tell me... is there anything in any of those ads that would make you 400% more likely to go to one of those chiropractors instead of all the others?

      I don't think so, either. And remember, these are the doctors who have paid extra for a display ad. The other doctors (the ones who are merely listed and don't have an ad) are even worse off. All they can hope for is their office happens to be geographically closer to whomever is "letting his fingers do the walking" than the other doctors.

      Not good enough. Let's see if we can do better. First, there is something you should remember...

Research Has Proven
People Are 5-Times
More Likely To Read
What Is (Or Appears To Be)
Editorial Matter Than
That Which Is Obviously
An Ad!

      And, here is something else for you to remember...

When People Look
In The Yellow Pages
They Are Looking For
A "Solution."

      In other words, when a person looks under "chiropractor", he's not only looking for a convenient doctor of chiropractic, he's also looking for a cure for his back pain, his migraine headaches, or whatever. So, let's say our relief seeker, when he gets to the section on chiropractors, not only sees all those "look-alike" ads, he also sees an "editorial" message with a headline something like this:

WARNING: Don't Call
Any Chiropractor Until
You Read This Announcement!

      Or perhaps, like this:

DOES YOUR BACK HURT?
Read This Before You
Make A Mistake And 
Choose The Wrong Doctor!

     Or this:

ARE YOU IN PAIN? If So,
Call (000) 000-0000 And Listen
To An Amazing Free Recorded Message
 That Reveals An Amazing Way
To Stop Hurting Fast!

      There is one thing common about all these headlines and that is...

They All Offer
News!

      Now, the copy underneath those headlines must deliver on the promise in the headline. It should inform, educate, and then finally, give a compelling reason why the reader should choose the chiropractor who has written this "announcement" instead of all the others. And... not only is the message important... the format or the "look" of the message/ad can be crucial.

      And, how should it look? The answer to that one is simple...

It Should Look Like
A Hot News Story
Taken Right Out A Newspaper!

 

WARNING: DON'T CALL
ANY CHIROPRACTOR UNTIL
YOU READ THIS!




Did you know not all chiropractors are the same?

    Yes, it's true. Some chiro- practors only understand the Palmer method of spinal adjustment. While others, who are more enlightened, understand not only the Palmer method, but also, many new techniques that give a more rapid and complete relief to pain.

    Do you hurt anywhere? Do you have a chronic back problem or a recurrent, nagging headache? If so, you should visit a chiro-practor who uses the new painless "accupressure without needles" mode of therapy.

Why? The answer is simple.	

You see, this new technology can be used on your very first visit to reduce your back pain (or headache) pain by 375% in just 15-minutes!

    That's the good news. The bad news is that there are only three chiropractors in California who use this new method of eliminating pain and there is only one here in Los Angeles.

    So, if you need fast help, you should call (000) 000-0000 and make an appoint-ment with Dr. R.J. Layton who is  (so)  the only doctor in L.A. using this new "stop pain" technology.

    
By the way, the first visit is free.

 Sort of like this:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      Now listen: I just made that up. I really don't know much about chiropractic. But, that's not the point. The idea is to get you thinking about what kind of "news release" you can write which will give you the edge on your competitors.

      Remember these points: (1) Offer news; (2) Offer a solution; and (3) If possible, offer something free.

And, Most Of All, Don't
Forget To Have Your
"News Release" Typeset
So It Looks Like "News"
And Not Like An Ad!

      Remember all those ads from the phone book I showed you? Well, let me show you how much more eye-catching our "news release" is when it's set among these other "ordinary" ads. Look at the second page of ads I have reproduced with the ad done the way I say to do it.

      Really stands out, doesn't it?

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
P.S.	I was reading an excellent book called True Detective the other day and it reminded me of something. The main character in the book was a private eye who worked in Chicago during the Capone era. And, when he opened his little agency, he called it ACME DETECTIVE AGENCY or something like that which started with an "A" so he could be listed first in the yellow pages.

If you can swing it, it's still a good idea.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Guru Gary's Guide To Things To Think About When Times Are Tough!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zgza_guru_garys_guide.htm

From: North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

We've got a terrible recession on our hands.

The politicians are lying about it and the media is too blind to see it. However, consumers know. They know it in their guts and they're running scared. They're tightening up the purse strings like a pit bull with lockjaw. Almost every person I know says business is down. Way down. In my case, I've got direct mail promos and space ads that, a short time ago were working like crazy. But now, they're just limping along and sometimes, even losing money.

Most of the time, this is a very positive "pump up" kind of newsletter bubbling over with enthusiasm and "you can do it" attitude. I don't intend to change that. Also, this letter usually gives very specific instructions on how to create tricky and profitable "marketing miracles." I don't intend to change that either. But, in this issue, because of the economic situation in the U.S., I simply want to give you a guide to some things to think about. Things that can give you an "edge" during today's tough times. So, get yourself a cold drink, settle down in a comfy chair and tell the folks around you not to disturb you so you can peruse...

GURU GARY'S GUIDE TO THINGS TO
THINK ABOUT WHEN TIMES GET TOUGH!

Thing #1:	Think About Quitting!

I was teaching at a Jay Abraham seminar when a certain man and his partners came to the stage for their "hot seat." They were in the business of building and selling single-family homes in a suburban town    on the outskirts of Chicago. Unfortunately, Sears was the biggest employer in the town and Sears was pulling out. Therefore, 70% of all homes in that town were up for sale and there were no buyers. I told these people... their game was over. They had to go into another business or move their existing business to another city.

They left the seminar. They said they didn't travel 2,000 miles and pay thousands of dollars to hear some dork tell them it was time to fold their tents.

They were stupid. Look, part of the wisdom you get from experience is knowing when to quit, knowing when something has run its course and is finished. Failure to recognize this can be very costly. Think about the so-called "farm problem" in the U.S. You know what the "farm problem" really is? It's simply we don't need so many farmers anymore. The big farms are so productive and so efficient the little farms aren't needed. "But we want to preserve our way of life," cry the small farm owners. "We've got our pride," they say.

Pride? What kind of human being takes pride in insisting we pay him for not producing?

Preserve a way of life? One that's not viable anymore? Well hey, what about all those buggy whip manufacturers driven out of business by the automobile? Should we have subsidized them? What about all those typewriter repairmen who, because of PC's and word processors, don't have any typewriters to repair anymore? Should we subsidize them too? So they can preserve "their way of life"? To put a twist on what philosopher Yogi Berra used to say, Guru Gary says...

When It's Over, It's Over!

Sure it's hard. I know that. But when a love affair has gone irretrievably bad, when a business is no longer viable, when your space ads and direct mail letters stop working then... think about quitting, cutting your losses and getting into another game.

Imagine an albino dwarf who desires to play pro basketball. Imagine Tony Robbins, Zig Ziglar, Norman Vincent Peale and every other preacher of positive thinking giving him encouragement. "Think positive!" they shout. "Never give up!" "You can do it!" "Handicaps are nothing but opportunities in disguise!" Etc.

And so, for 20 years, this poor little guy shoots baskets for 10 hours per day and then... he goes to try out for an NBA team. And guess what? He makes it! Because...

They Use Him For The Ball!

Forgive me. I mean no disrespect but, if you're only 2-1/2 feet tall, you're never going to play pro basketball. So... why not channel all that energy into something viable? Like going to Hollywood, starring in Disney movies and sleeping with beautiful starlets.

By the way, did you know lots of women are utterly fascinated by dwarfs and midgets and sleep with them just out of curiosity? I'm not making this up. It's true.

Look, in spite of this bizarre example, I'm trying to make a serious point here. Has your business failed to make a profit for a long time? If so, maybe it's not viable anymore. Maybe it never was. Maybe it's time to close up shop and go on to something else. Think about it. That's all I'm saying...

Think about it.

Thing #2:	Think About Hiring A Good Private Detective Before You Make Your Next Serious Move!

I use private detectives quite a lot. You should too. Often, they can save you years of grief. Are you about to do a business deal with a guy with a great image who is really a bum? Is that key employee you're about to hire a flat-out criminal on parole for embezzling millions from his last ten employers? Is your most critical supplier about to go bankrupt and leave you no way of filling thousands of orders? Is that "Prince of a Guy"  or "Peach of a Gal" you're about to marry a con artist or golddigger with a past shadier than Karen   Redpath's? Are you thinking of flying 3,000 miles, spending several thousand fungolas and wasting a week of your time to have a business meeting with people who are nothing but a bunch of flakes?

Slow down a minute. Sometimes a P.I. can do a simple routine check that only takes a day or so and uncover some odious, unpleasant facts you'd never know about without his help. And sometimes (often) he'll simply discover the person or company being checked out is totally "OK" and then... won't it be nice to have one less big thing to worry about?

By the way, the first person I always call when I want to find out something is Laura Charles. Her phone number is (216) 229-1014. Even though she is not a private detective, she has an amazing capacity to find out almost anything. And, if it turns out you do still need the services of a licensed private detective, Laura can recommend the best ones available.

Think about it.

Thing #3:	Think About Starting Your Own Research And Development Department!

Nearly all big companies have an R&D department. IBM has one. So does Firestone Rubber Company (I used to work in Firestone's R&D dept.), Dow Chemical, DuPont and hundreds of others. You should have one too... even if you're a one man operation!

Listen up: I bet you have plenty of problems vexing you right now that... other people have already figured out how to solve! Why should you be trying to blaze a new trail when the road has already been paved?

How much time and money will it cost you to start your own R&D department? I hope you're not put off by this but... how about one day per month and $10.00 or $20.00? Let's say you own a flower shop and you want to sell more flowers. If you'll give up just one lousy day per month, you could use that time to get about 100 out-of-town newspapers and go through them looking for ads placed by other people selling flowers. You could also go to a large public library and finger walk your way through the Yellow Pages of maybe 100 out-of-town phone books and read all the ads appearing under "florists."

What you are looking for are ideas, marketing strategies, headlines, concepts, etc. which can be transplanted to your business in your home town.

Think about it. Just one idea per year from this kind of low-tech R&D could have a truly profound impact on your bottom-line.

Also, if you're looking for a new business idea, this is a good way to find one. A few days ago, in the "Key West Citizen," I found a doozy. Check out this ad:

We Deliver




 CUBAN
ORIENTAL        MEXICAN
AMERICAN       ITALIAN

WHATEVER FOOD
YOU WANT

We Deliver
has over 50 menus.
DELIVERY CHARGE: 15%
(minimum charge: $1.00)
10:30 a.m. - Midnight 




293-0078

What a great idea! Here's a way Paulette and I can sit home and have supper delivered and not have to settle for pizza. We can get anything we want. I don't know who came up with this idea but I love it. And think about how slick it is. All you really need is a telephone and some part-time minimum wage employees. To get going, you simply make deals with all the good restaurants in your town by offering to give them a lot of business providing you can buy their food at a substantial discount. Then, when someone calls in an order to you, you make money on the food plus you make even more bucks by tacking on a delivery charge.

This deal gives you all the benefits of owning a restaurant (actually of owning 50 restaurants) without any of the overhead.

By the way, do you remember the name, Rick Neiswonger? He's the guy who stole the show at my "Seminar Of The Century." Rick is one of the most astute and energetic businessmen I've ever met and he's looking for something new to promote. Not a product necessarily, but some sort of money-making system. Say, for example, you've found an automatic way to make X number of dollars every time someone has a baby in your town. OK, what Rick can do is, take your system, refine it... and then, market that system to other people in other cities who have money and energy but no place to channel those assets. Do you have such a deal? Some sort of proven system that almost can't fail if only someone will follow your recipe? If so, call Rick and perhaps you'll both make a bundle. His number is (800) 971-1088.

Anyhow, getting back to R&D, I believe if you are not using at least 5% of your time and money to "treasure hunt" for new ideas, you are truly missing the boat. Do your R&D systematically and religiously. Give it some priority. Read newsletters, books, newspapers and magazines. Buy or rent appropriate audio and video tapes and audit them every month. Systematically acquire and peruse other people's space ads and direct mail promos.

Have some fun with this. Don't do it in a competitive, goal-oriented way. But do it. And remember, if this kind of low-tech R&D only uncovers one killer idea, it might make a life or death difference to your business.

Think about it.

Thing #4:	Think About Looking For "Set-Ups" Instead Of Challenges!

I always know I'm talking to a lightweight when someone tells me they get off on the "challenge" of trying to achieve something. Are you kidding? In business today, it's an incredible challenge just to survive! You know, every so often, I get a call from someone who doesn't know me and they say something like this: "Gary, we hear you've got one of the best marketing minds on the planet and we've got something you can really sink your teeth into. Something that's a great challenge. See, we manufacture little, portable refrigerators and we want you to market them to Eskimos. The way we figure, when we can say we've got a 'fridge so different even Eskimos buy it, then everybody else will stand in line to get one. Doesn't that sound exciting?"

"Oh boy!" I say while jumping up and down. "That's just what I need... another challenge! Hey, you've really come to the right guy. By golly, I was just thinking: Here I am responding to the challenges of trying to put my kids through college, supporting my mother, sending money to my ex-wife, meeting a hefty payroll, paying all my rents, scraping up enough to pay taxes, dealing with petty bureaucrats, trying to write a state-of-the-art newsletter every month, keeping fit so I don't have more health problems, trying to figure out new ways to promote my own products, trying to figure out why my last promo didn't work, meeting 16 deadlines every day and... and... and...

"Oh God Am I Happy You've
Brought Me Another 'Challenge'!
Yahoo!"

BULL... SHIT! American business owners need another "challenge" about as much as Warren Beatty needs help getting dates. What we need are "set-ups," lay-down hands, deals that can't hardly miss even if everything goes wrong. (As it always does.)

I wanna sell heroin to junkies. Fudge bars that make you skinny to porkers. Porno videos to Pee Wee Herman. Travel luggage to President Bush. Memory pills to Ronald Reagan. Kitty Kelley dart boards to Nancy Reagan. Condoms to Geraldo Rivera. (Did you read his new book? Whew!) Booze to Ted Kennedy. I.Q. pills to Dan Quayle, etc... etc... etc.

Are you getting the idea? I don't want (and certainly don't need) another "challenge." No... I WANT IT TO BE EASY!

Here's my idea of an acceptable marketing "challenge": Someone comes to me and says he's got this new diet pill that burns off 1-1/2 pounds of fat per day no matter what or how much you eat. Not only that, he's got proof in the form of double-blind studies. Plus, he's got FDA approval stating his pill really does live up to all his claims. Plus, he's got hundreds of testimonials from satisfied users who've given him permission to use them along with their extremely dramatic before and after photos. Plus, he's got ten M.D.'s who rave about his product. Plus, he's got Liz Taylor to endorse his product and she's agreed to sign any ad I write. Plus, Eric Weinstein has uncovered a list of 10,000,000 virgin porkers who've never been sent a diet product direct mail piece.

Now, that's Gary C. Halbert's idea of a desirable marketing "challenge"!

What I'm saying here is, it's hard enough to make something work even when you've got everything going for it... let alone trying to make some "challenge" work that's got two strikes against it before you even get started.

Don't look for marketing challenges. Instead, look for marketing "set-ups." Ditto when you're looking for a business to buy. You don't want something with "potential," you want something that's proven. The best kind of business to buy is one that's limping along but making a small profit despite the owners doing vapid marketing or... better yet... no marketing at all.

"Set-ups," "set-ups," "set-ups." Look for them and forget about "challenges."

Think about it.

Thing #5:	Think About Downsizing Your Life!

Grandiosity bankrupts. It creates enormous stress. Do you really need to be the biggest? Or the best? Do you really need that drop-dead office? Do you honestly believe anyone cares you've got the highest grossing widget company in America? Listen to me: TIME is the irretrievable, irreplaceable element and... YOU ARE RUNNING OUT! Face it: You had a short time left on this earth the very moment you were born. The truth is, from a cosmic point of view, all of us are going to be gone in the blink of an eye. Are you going to waste 25% of your most precious commodity staring into a computer screen? Trying to beat last year's sales record? (Who cares?) Struggling to make the mortgage on that condo in Aspen you only visit twice a year? Sweating bullets so you can wear a Rolex?

Check this out: I've got both a solid gold $12,000 Rolex President and a $99.00 el cheapo Soviet "KGB" type watch made by Gruen. I love my Soviet "KGB" watch. First, it's easy to read. It's got a plain white face with big black numbers and black hands. It's got a comfy leather band and... you can unscrew the cap over the knob you use to set the time and there's a little secret recessed place wherein you can hide a suicide pill. Since I tend to lose things, so far, I've bought three of these dudes (the watches not the suicide pills) and, if I lose the one I'm wearing, shelling out another $99.00 smackers won't be particularly painful.

Oh, I almost forgot... this watch comes in a tin box like they sell caviar in and this box is just right to put on your dresser to hold spare change and stuff.

Now, let's talk about that $12,000 Rolex. The face of the watch has Roman numerals instead of good old American numbers. Actually, all these little marks are so small, the window you look in to find out the date has a magnifying glass over it! (I can't set the date anyway.) Now, since the hands and face of the watch are both gold and the numerals are so small... you need the eyesight of an eagle to read this sucker.

What makes all this so ironic is, except for dope dealers and corrupt presidents of S&L's, hardly anyone can afford one of these "quality" timepieces until they're over 50 and their eyesight is shot to hell.

And, since this thing is a self-winding mechanical jobbie, it punishes you if you don't wear it for a day by ceasing to function. Plus, it costs a fortune to repair. I was with Ted Thomas at a TV shoot last year and he told me it cost him $1,600 just to have the clasp repaired on his. A couple weeks ago, my wind-up knob fell off (it just fell off!) in a motel room in Ohio and, if the maids hadn't found it, I might've had to skip a few meals to get it replaced. Best of all...

This Watch Can Get
You Murdered!

We now have specialist crooks here in Florida called "Rolex Bandits" who are likely, if they catch you wearing this extravagance... to cut your hand off to get it!

But it really is a great watch. It has dramatically increased my quality of life. No doubt about it. By spending 120 times more than I paid for my "KGB" special, I've got a timepiece that's impossible to read, stops when you don't wear it, costs a fortune when pieces fall off and, is a magnet for vicious criminals.

The moral? Simply this:

Maybe Downsizing Your Life
Will Upsize The Quality Of Same!

Maybe... just maybe... this "downsizing" will have as little genuine relevance as my solid gold Rolex has in comparison to my ticky-tacky $99.00 "KGB" mail order special.

Think about it.

Thing #6:	Think About Kimberly Bergalis!

Kimberly Bergalis has become the benchmark against which I measure my "tough" life. I think about her whenever my row seems too hard to hoe or life seems unfair or too difficult. Kimberly is a beautiful young Florida girl (in her early 20's) who is dying of AIDS contracted from her dentist. The powers that be tried to smear her but, guess what? Not only is she not a drug user, she's never even had sex. She's a virgin. A beautiful, young, clean-living virgin who is going to die without ever getting her shot at life. Compared to Kimberly Bergalis, my troubles and, I suspect yours...

Don't Amount To A Hill Of Beans!

Think about it!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
President, KGB PR Dept.

 

P.S.	I know... I know. Not everyone appreciates these "think pieces" but, damn it, sometimes we all need to back off a bit and reflect a little on just what the hell it is we're trying to achieve.
P.S.#2	

I played a "trick" on you with this issue. Did you catch it? If not, I'll explain.

A friend of mine, Carlos "Globular" Duran has been reading all the back issues of my newsletter and he recently started pestering me to re-read a particular issue I wrote nearly a decade ago. His pestering was so irritating to me that, I finally did re-read that issue just to get him off my back.

The newsletter you just read is almost word-for-word the same as my September 30, 1991 newsletter. It seems that what I wrote almost ten years ago is as accurate and important today... as... it was back then.

I'm now glad Carlos insisted I re-read it... and... I've shared it with you. That's because... I can't think of anything more relevant to write about today in the year 2001... than... what I wrote way back in September, 1991. I hope you'll agree with me that sometimes (often)...

It Is More Important To Be Reminded Of
"Core Fundamentals" Than To Be Dazzled With
Some New Piece Of Contemporary Creativity!

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Boxes Of Nuggets!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zkza_nuggets.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek



Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Next month (September), I am going to send you a newsletter which will leave you no excuse whatsoever for not getting rich.

But, you know what? Money doesn't solve everything. Often, it makes things worse. How can that be? You see...

Money Is Power!

But, power can be used for both good... and... not-so-good. Think of it this way: Power is something, for example, which can be used to run an electric skill saw. A master carpenter can use that skill saw to build a magnificent house. Yet, a mechanical idiot can use that same skill saw to cut off his leg.

And so it is with money. Money can give you the power to greatly enhance your life... or... it can give you the ability to destroy your life. A simple illustration: Money can give you the power to buy the latest medical advances to enhance your life... or... it can give you the ability to buy an endless supply of heroin and destroy or even terminate your life.

I personally believe it is much harder to use money wisely than it is to make it. Look at all the people like rock stars, celebrities and lottery winners who suddenly have massive amounts of money... and then... speedily ruin (or even end) their lives with drugs and other insane behavior.

Since I'm going to take the mystery out of how you can get rich in my next issue, I figured I'd use this month to give you a few truths worth pondering... before... I send you next month's issue. Maybe something in the following pages will prevent you from using the money you'll make (after you read the September issue of my newsletter) to kill yourself, damage yourself... or... at the very least, help you avoid some horribly bad "speed bumps."

Much of what you are about to read was written by Dave Kekich in "Kekich's Credo" and his upcoming new book, Triumph 101. But also, much of what you are about to read was written by me. And, much of what you are about to read was written by people whose identity is uncertain. All that really doesn't matter. What really does matter is... I'm giving you...

A Collection Of
Truths, Ideas And Observations
Which Can Dramatically Enhance
Your Quality Of Life!

Enjoy.

Self esteem is everything: The first "must have" for success is... the honest-to-God, no-bullshit belief you deserve success!

Nothing wins more than superior preparation.

People will do almost anything to stay in their "comfort zone." Never take someone out of their own comfort zone when you are trying to sell them something.

On the other hand, if you have the courage to put yourself outside your own "comfort zone"... repeatedly... you will certainly gain humongous rewards.

All men are very much alike. It is their habits which separate them.

Time is the irretrievable element. The most important choices you will ever make is how you use your time. Remember... every second counts!

If you have enough money to solve a problem... then... you don't have a problem.

Bankers only lend money to people who don't need it.

Marketing is the fuel which drives your business.

Never buy a hotel when all you want is a room for the night. It's like marrying a woman and committing to her for life... when... all you really want is a piece of ass.

You can be good at making excuses... or... you can be good at producing results. You cannot be good at both. Only you can decide.

Never punish anyone... including yourself... for any mistake made out of enthusiasm.

If you desire to become wealthy, you must be in business for yourself.

It takes almost the same amount of time and energy to manage tiny projects or businesses as it takes to manage massive ones... but... the massive ones are the ones which give you massive rewards.

Be wary of people who describe themselves as church-going Christian businessmen. Going to church and saying you are a Christian is like walking into a garage and saying you are a car.

The first wealth is health.

Always, always, always pay retail. It's so much cheaper (in the long-run).

You can't get something for nothing. The price is too high.

Get yourself a personal trainer whom you have to pay... even if... you don't show up for your exercise session. That way, you either exercise... or... you pay the price immediately for not doing so.

An alert, focused, razor-sharp mind can slice through any challenge.

Wealth is the result of man's capacity to think.

People treat you like you teach them to treat you.

Cut all ties with dishonest, negative or lazy people. This includes relatives and close friends. You simply cannot afford to have them in your life.

Your work is not your life. It is only a part of your life. People who are obsessed with with work are running away from life. No matter how much money they are making, they are still losers.

Spend your life. Don't save it. If you do save it, you'll die a bitter, bitter man.

Situations aren't important. How you react to them is. You have to play it where it lies.

If your purpose in life is to have security, you will be a failure. Security is the lowest form of happiness. (Besides, security simply doesn't exist.)

Great love and great achievement involve great risk.

It is far better to apologize for something you've already done... than... it is to ask permission for something you want to do. After all, that permission may be denied.

Most people spend 90% of their time on what they're not best at... and... only 10% of their time on their best ability. Successful people delegate that 90%... and... are thus able to spend all their time on their "unique" ability.

The formula for business success is simple: Find out what people want and give it to          them. But, you must find out what they really want... not... just what they say they want.

The best way to get started is to get started.

Movement always produces more results than meditation.

Attack life. Wait for nothing.

He has half the deed done who has made a beginning.

The future starts today (right now)... not tomorrow.

When it's a matter of producing or starving, people don't starve.

Get yourself a first-class personal assistant like my invaluable Theresa (Hah! Good luck trying!) and do whatever it takes to keep her in your life.

I believe the nuggets of wisdom herein are so vital to your well-being, I've had my Trusty Assistant Theresa prepare this issue in an unusual format. The first four pages are a complete issue of this newsletter. But, you'll notice pages 5 through 8 repeat the "nuggets" only. That's because I want you to do two things with this issue:

(1)	Keep this issue handy  (pages 1 through 4) and read it from beginning to end at least once a week.
(2)	Cut out the "boxes of nuggets" (pages 5 through 8) and surround yourself with them. Put one or two in your underwear and socks drawers so you'll be sure to see them to start your day off right. Staple a few onto post-it notes and tack them to the side of your computer screen or on the wall over your desk to keep you pumped up during the day. Use those little magnet thingys on your 'fridge to hold a couple so you'll be feeding regularly on the "Guru's Strips." Tape a couple to the mirror where you exercise so you'll be getting a mental work out at the same time. Place some others on your pillow so you'll see them just as you lie down to go to sleep at night and you'll have sweet dreams.

Why do I want you to do these things? Because I want you in tip-top, prime shape mentally and emotionally before you start raking in the fungolas. And, speaking of fungolas, if you want to make some serious buckaroos... and make them fast... then be sure to...

Read Next Month's Issue Of My Newsletter
The Very Same Day It Arrives In Your Mailbox!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"Part-Time Plagiarist"


P.S.	If you know anyone who lives in or makes frequent trips to Costa Rica, I'd love to talk with them.

Peace.


Self esteem is everything: The first "must have" for success is... the honest-to-God, no-bullshit belief you deserve success!

Nothing wins more than superior preparation.

 

 

 

 

 

 

People will do almost anything to stay in their "comfort zone." Never take someone out of their own comfort zone when you are trying to sell them something.
On the other hand, if you have the courage to put yourself outside your own "comfort zone"... repeatedly... you will certainly gain humongous rewards.

 

 

 

 

 

It takes almost the same amount of time and 
energy to manage tiny projects or businesses 
as it takes to manage massive ones... but... the massive ones are the ones which give you massive rewards.

 

All men are very much alike. It is their habits which separate them.
Time is the irretrievable element. The most important choices you will ever make is how you use your time. Remember... every second counts!

 

 

 

 

 

If you have enough money to solve a problem... then... you don't have a problem.
Bankers only lend money to people who don't need it.

 

 

 

 

 

Marketing is the fuel which drives your business.
Never buy a hotel when all you want is a room for the night. It's like marrying a woman and committing to her for life... when... all you really want is a piece of ass.

 

 

 

 

 

You can be good at making excuses... or... you can be good at producing results. You cannot be good at both. Only you can decide.
Never punish anyone... including yourself... for any mistake made out of enthusiasm.

 

 

 

 

 

Most people spend 90% of their time on what they're not best at... and... only 10% of their time on their best ability. Successful people delegate that 90%... and... are thus able to spend all their time on their "unique" ability.

 

If you desire to become wealthy, you must be in business for yourself.
Be wary of people who describe themselves as church-going Christian businessmen. Going to church and saying you are a Christian is like walking into a garage and saying you are a car.

 

 

 

 

 

The first wealth is health.
Always, always, always pay retail. It's so much cheaper (in the long-run).

 

 

 

 

 

You can't get something for nothing. The price is too high.
Get yourself a personal trainer whom you have to pay... even if... you don't show up for your exercise session. That way, you either exercise... or... you pay the price immediately for not doing so.

 

 

 

 

 

An alert, focused, razor-sharp mind can slice through any challenge.
Wealth is the result of man's capacity to think.

 

 

 

 

 

People treat you like you teach them to treat you.
Cut all ties with dishonest, negative or lazy people. This includes relatives and close friends. You simply cannot afford to have them in your life.

 

 

 

 

 

Your work is not your life. It is only a part of your life. People who are obsessed with work are running away from life. No matter how much money they are making, they are still losers.
Spend your life. Don't save it. If you do save it, you'll die a bitter, bitter man.

 

 

 

 

 

Situations aren't important. How you react to them is. You have to play it where it lies.
If your purpose in life is to have security, you will be a failure. Security is the lowest form of happiness. (Besides, security simply doesn't exist.) 

 

 

 

 

 

Great love and great achievement involve great risk.
It is far better to apologize for something you've already done... than... it is to ask permission for something you want to do. After all, that permission may be denied.

 

 

 

 

 

The formula for business success is simple: Find out what people want and give it to them. But, you must find out what they really want... not... just what they say they want.
The best way to get started is to get started.

 

 

 

 

 

Movement always produces more results than meditation.
Attack life. Wait for nothing.

 

 

 

 

 

He has half the deed done who has made a beginning.
The future starts today (right now)... not tomorrow.

 

 

 

 

 

When it's a matter of producing or starving, people don't starve.
Get yourself a first-class personal assistant like my invaluable Theresa (Hah! Good luck trying!) and do whatever it takes to keep her in your life.

 

 

 

 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## A Special Treat For Readers Of The Gary Halbert Letter (Click Here To Hear The Call Now)

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2011/ASpecialTreat.htm

Click Here To Listen To The Recording

 




February 2nd, 2011

Hi everyone.  I've got a special treat here... I just hung up with John Carlton (my father's best friend for decades, and the first marketing wizard he sought out when he wanted to brainstorm and solve business problems), and got him to agree to something fascinating.

 
He will get on the phone with me, and do speed Hot Seats on important questions that I'm asking YOU to send in.  
 
So I'm asking you to tell me what's keeping you up at night... what business problem or situation has created a sticking point that you can't move past... and what's generally bugging you about marketing, advertising or business in general right now.
 
This is an opportunity to get a legendary marketing and copywriting expert to laser-focus on your question... and solve it, right on the phone call we're going to record.  Now, I can't guarantee we'll be able to get to every question that comes in... but we'll choose the best of the bunch (which offer the most valuable lessons for the most folks) and go deep on them.
 
So, if you want John to dig into your question, get it over to us immediately.  The faster, the better.
 
Here's how to do it:  Send an email to kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com with "Questions for John & Kevin" in the subject line
 
Do this now, while it's on your mind.  I'll be recording a call with John in a few days, using the questions that come in.
 
This is a fairly stunning opportunity to get some personal attention on what's keeping you up at night... from one of the most respected and sought-after marketing minds in the game.
 
This is gonna rock.
 
I'll let you know when you can listen to the call in a few days...
 
Kevin


Copyright (c) 2011 NoMax Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

## How You Should Start Everyday For The Rest Of Your Life!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/aslk_start_every_day.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Nobody ever asks me who the best copywriter in the world is anymore.

My answer is a foregone conclusion.

However, I am now often asked, "Who is the world's second-best copywriter?" And, although there are a handful of world-class contenders, on an all-round basis, I'd have to give the nod to my friend, John Carlton because he is at the top of the heap when it comes to being...

A Hard-Boiled, Go-Get-The-Job-Done,
Grab-Them-By-The-Throat, And
Force-Them-To-Order Copywriter!

John almost makes a fetish out of being low profile. Even though he's a world-class copywriter... and... someone who makes millions of dollars for his clients... he is NOT someone who chooses to be on the book market or seminar circuit. He's not somebody who goes out and tries to become famous. He's like a "quiet trade secret" for those few of us insiders who are privileged to know him... and... he's one of those people you'll rarely ever get the opportunity to hear his advice.

Like most of the best writers, John is a complex man. He loathes publicity and limelight yet, he performs on stage as a scorching lead guitarist for local bar bands as a hobby.

John scrambled from a loving, working-class home in tiny Cucamonga, California. He was the first of his tribe to attend college and he has lived all over the country working as a cartoonist, fisherman, dishwasher, novelist and executive. He's proud of his white-trash, blue-collar roots. "We were the people you cherished as your friends and neighbors," John says.

He tried many different lifestyles as he was growing up. John was lucky enough to catch the heyday of Beatlemania, the emerging pop-culture of television, hippydom, the sexual revolution, Watergate, the rise of importance of Silicon Valley, Los Angeles decadence during the '80s... and... most importantly... the radical changes in advertising that came with computers, cable television, video, and the absorption of junk mail into everyday life. John's involvement with these events is critical to you being able to understand the depth of his experience and knowledge as it relates to advertising and marketing.

John has combined his degree in Psychology from UC Davis, his passion for history, his wicked sense of humor and his youth spent on the edge of Bohemia into a powerful writing talent and a "feel" for what makes people tick.

On today's mean streets of marketing, he is truly the "best-of-the-best."

His assault on the advertising world started with an old school education in direct mail. Typing on an ancient IBM Selectric, crafting camera-ready production work with hot wax and an x-acto knife.

Then WHAM! Everything he knew became obsolete as technology exploded. However, like every world-class craftsman, John stayed immersed in educating himself. He's read hundreds of books about writing and advertising. He personally sought out and learned from the great men of the industry: He went from being the high-paid, hot-shot freelancer Los Angeles agencies snuck in the back door (to write the pieces they couldn't get their staff to pull off) to writing on the inside with marketing wizards like Jay Abraham and established copywriters like Jim Rutz.

Circa 1988, I invited John to handle the big desk chores at my Hollywood office on Sunset Boulevard. During our long friendship, John has accompanied me on marketing adventures that have changed the very nature of advertising forever.

His education with me included convincing famous celebrities to humiliate themselves on camera for obscure ads... telling rooms full of millionaire executives their ideas sucked (and making them like it)... saving corporations from bankruptcy with campaigns we had to whip up overnight (and then "con" the clients into running the ads even though it ran against every fiber of their being). We put on lavish seminars where people happily paid $10,000+ just to glean a few nuggets of advice while John and I ranted and babbled and goofed off without a plan. Being enslaved to insane deadlines. Re-inventing modern advertising for cable and the Internet. We were among the very first to do infomercials, to advertise on the 'Net and make videos a marketing industry.

John's had fun, brushes with death, helped small men accumulate fortunes and watched helplessly as rich corporations came tumbling down from their own idiocy. There's no better way to learn how the world works than to roll up your sleeves and get filthy with experience like this. He's been stupid, smart, cursed, lucky, broke, well off, mocked, worshiped, hated and loved.

And, he's learned something from every damned minute of it.

John is a master of what I call "muscle writing." He can write a brilliant ad on any subject no matter how complex, technical or difficult. Yet, he makes each ad easy to understand. Also, he writes it in such a way, it's as impossible to stop reading as an Ian Fleming or a John D. MacDonald novel.

He can identify and relate to every type of customer... and... he can sell to them. In 21 years as a prolific writer, John has had a hand in selling nearly every product or service used by human beings. His accomplishments include promoting an unlikely sex manual for the conservative Rodale Press... and... John's sales letter for that manual has been unbeatable for three years... despite... constant attempts by other copywriters to write a different sales letter that will pull in a higher percentage of orders.

Another of John's achievements is his excellent promotion of a right wing financial doomsday letter. John's "Package of Paranoia" mailed successfully for seven years. (By the way, had he been hired by a liberal publisher, he would have written a sales letter from their point of view which would have worked just as well.)

Then, there's the dozens of how-to-fight videos from real-life street fighters and Navy SEALS... which... has earned millions from a tiny, miniscule niche market.

Plus reams of other ads and letters written for shrinks, people looking for mates, new computer products, chiropractors, diet programs, precious metal investing, fund raisers and personal letters which have motivated people to change their lives.

When John's ads run in magazines (which often fill three pages of copy) the entire look of the publication quickly changes as other advertisers catch on... and... begin to imitate... his hard-hitting writing style that is so effective at raking in profits.

His direct mail sales letters have long been used all over the world as study guides for other writers. In fact, many copywriters (including me) secretly come to John for marketing help with their projects. You see, John has a soft spot for helping people... because... no one helped him when he was struggling in the early years. Once I heard this remark from John:

"It's amazing how people can so readily crush someone's dreams."

So true and to the point.

But, as John also remarked, "The lesson is, don't look for anyone to cheer your success until after you've arrived. Trust only those who believed in you when things were tough. They are the gems who will brighten your life."

College-educated, street-trained, honed by years of intense work in the trenches, John Carlton has quietly earned his place as one of the best copywriters on the planet. While his demand for privacy keeps him out of the limelight, in 1998 alone, he turned down over $300,000 worth of jobs from well-known marketers. He prefers to work with a handful of private clients, though on occasion, he will take on new work.

He Is Truly A Man
Who Cherishes His Laziness!

His fees have caused un-initiated clients to choke... but... the results of his ads and mailing packages often rake in multi-millions in profits for his clients.

So what? Why should you care about all this? How does all this fit into a newsletter you read because you want to suck more fungolas out of the world for your own evil purposes?

You'll soon find out. But, first, I have to tell you a little about another of my friends, Joe Polish.

Joe is 30 years old. He had a difficult childhood surrounded by dysfunctional, drug-addicted, impoverished people. By sheer force of will, he overcame all that and enrolled in New Mexico State College in 1986. He worked various odd jobs until he finished college in 1989. Then, he returned to Phoenix and opened a carpet cleaning business. For two years he floundered, barely keeping the business alive. Then, in 1992, he read one of my newsletters. It was, I think, the one about the "Halbert Index." He started using some of my marketing techniques and turned his business around.

Later, he began to study other marketing gurus like Dan Kennedy and Jay Abraham and his business grew even more.

In 1994, Joe formed Polish & Burke which rapidly morphed into Piranha Marketing with a mission to teach other carpet cleaners the marketing secrets he had learned.

Piranha Marketing did 1/4 million the first year, 1/2 million the second and is now pulling in over a million per year... and... still growing.

One of the deals he offers his subscribers is membership in his "Tape-Of-The-Month Club." This is where he interviews a different expert every month on some aspect of business or marketing.

It quickly became apparent these tapes were not only valuable to carpet cleaners but... to anyone... interested in increasing their bottom-line.

Joe's interviewed me, Dan Kennedy, Michael Gerber and a couple dozen other people and the wisdom on these tapes is invaluable. It costs $18.53 per month to be a member of Joe's Tape-Of-The-Month Club... for which... you get the tape of his current interview... as well as... the written transcript.

Well, recently, Joe interviewed my friend John Carlton... and... it is the most electric and revealing interview (even better than his interview with me) Joe has ever done. In fact, John was pouring forth so much valuable info... that... for the first time... Joe's tape of the month consisted of two tapes... and... you ought to listen to those tapes.

When I listened to them, I was reminded of our exciting times together when John and I were working feverishly on "Operation Moneysuck" which is a concept John explains brilliantly on the tapes.  John also gets into...

x 	Why you should think of yourself as a "sales detective" instead of just a copywriter...
x	How to identify the real hot buttons which make people buy...
x	His work strategies that let him turn out killer sales letters and ads time-after-time...
x	How you start writing copy by "circling the desk..."
x 	How he created a sensational "sex book ad" for the conservative Rodale Press...
x	How he created the "amazing, one-legged golfer" package...
x 	His "human computer" stock wizard package...
x	How to use the "shortcut" of endorsed mailings...
x	How to create headlines that go straight for the jugular...
x 	The power of the blow-up photo of the microscopic dust mite...
x	How to create sales by pissing off your customers...
x	His "lipstick-on-the-collar" concept...
x	How mega-power guarantees pump up sales...
x	What kind of free presents you should be giving your customers...
x	Why his headlines are so long...
x	Why having a "swipe file" is essential...
x	Why you need to reach for the outrageous limits of every emotion including guilt, outrage, fear, greed and suspicion.

I'm gonna stop now. There's so much on these tapes, I could spend another couple of hours trying to describe them all to you. You need to listen to these and...

I've Arranged For You To
Have A "Free Listen" To Them!

What you do is, you call Joe Polish's office (1-800-275-2643) and sign up for his Tape-Of-The-Month Club. Tell the office you're one of my subscribers and they will immediately send you the two tapes of Joe's interview with John Carlton. These are yours to keep... no matter what.

After you listen to this interview, if you don't want any more of the tapes of Joe's monthly interviews, simply call his office and tell them you want to un-sign-up. (I just made up that word.) If you do that, they won't send you any more tapes... but... you still get to keep the tapes of John's interview... and... you won't be out a single dime.

Another thing: If I were you... and... I had a need for a serious, world-class copywriter, I'd try to get John Carlton. You can e-mail him at...

cucarifa@aol.com

Now listen: Neither John nor Joe have any idea I'm writing this. I don't get a penny in commissions if you join Joe's Tape-Of-The-Month Club. I am making a strong recommendation here with no financial motive whatsoever. I want you to have the tapes of Joe's interview with John simply because...

They Are So Damn Good!

So there.

By the way, in case you're out of the country and can't call Piranha Marketing's 800 number, the direct line is...

1-602-858-0008

Onward.

Back in the late '60s, I read a novel. I can't remember the title but, I'll never forget though the story. It was about one college professor who was jealous of another professor who had become rich and famous by writing a series of "how-to-become-a-success" type books.

The first professor decided he would discredit the second guy. His plan was, he would read one of the self-help books, follow its instructions to the letter... and then... since he knew none of these instructions would actually work... he would write a book exposing the "how-to" book author as a fraud.

So, he read one of the books, followed all the instructions... and... unfortunately for him...

His Life Started
Getting Better!

t  Setting goals did work.

t  Keeping a positive mental attitude did work.

t  Visualizing himself as the improved self he desired to be did work.

t  Planning his work and working his plan did work.

Etc., etc., etc.

Ain't that a bitch? What's the world coming to? You set out to discredit a man and then discover his advice is actually helping you!

Anyway, I've got another book in front of me now titled, If I Knew Then What I Know Now. In this book, CEO's and other smart executives share wisdom they wish they'd been told 25 years ago. It's pretty good. Here's one very short observation from page 144 by a columnist named Whit Hobbs:

"Success is waking up in the morning, whoever you are, however old or young, and bounding out of bed because there's something out there that you love to do, that you believe in, that you're good at -- something that's bigger than you are, and you can't hardly wait to get at it again today."

What a great observation.

Listen: I'll tell you something: I teach people all about how to do a mathematical, marketing regression analysis, how to access Nasdaq Level II quotes, how to massage complex statistics, how to create engineered reciprocity, how to profitably navigate the Internet with their PC's, and an endless variety of other complex, highly-technical shit.

But you know what? The really important wisdom... the stuff which will really change your life... is simple. In fact, it's so simple, it could rightly be considered downright corny.

I've been thinking: What if I were on my death bed? What if I had only a few minutes left? What if God told me to use those last few minutes to tell someone the single most important thing I knew? What if it had to be the one thing... that... in my opinion... would enhance their life more than anything else I could ever tell them?

What would it be? Something about love? Loyalty? Marketing or perhaps spirituality? Exercise, study habits, nutrition, fitness, relationships? WHAT?

Nope. It wouldn't be any of that stuff. If it could only be one thing, here is what I would teach you:

 



How You Should
Start Every Day For
The Rest Of Your Life!

1.	Set your alarm clock to go off 10 minutes earlier  than usual.
2.	The first thing, after you get up, is to immediately remake your bed.
3.	Go to the kitchen, pour yourself a glass of water and drink it all.
4.	Go to the bathroom, take care of "business," brush your teeth, wash the sleep out of  your face and eyes and brush and comb your hair.
5.	Next, put on some exercise clothes like sweatpants, a sweatshirt and sneakers.
6.	Leave the house immediately and take a 20-minute walk.
7.	As soon as you get back, woof down a nutritionally-dense protein drink made by mixing the contents of a packet of Myoplex, Met-RX or Lean Body with eight ounces of fat-free milk and a banana.
8.	 Scarf down a packet of vitamins and minerals like Dr. Julian Whitaker's "FORWARD PLUS."
9.	Take a shower.
10.	Dress in fresh, crisp clothes and go about your day.

 

Pretty simple stuff, isn't it? But, I'll tell you this: If you will do this every day in 1999, it will create a more positive change in your life than anything else you can do.

This regiment, although simple on the surface, has profound and somewhat complex and far-reaching psychological ramifications.

May I explain?

Thank you.

1.  Set your alarm to go off 10 minutes earlier than usual. By getting a 10-minute earlier start, you tend to remove the "urgency" many of us experience as soon as we wake up. You'll feel less harried, less hurried and a bit more peaceful.

2.  The first thing, after you get up, is to immediately remake your bed. If you don't do this, you will be starting your day... instantly... creating an "undone chore" which will nag at the back of your mind for the rest of the day. If you do do this, you will start the day without having added a single, niggling little thing to your "to do" list.

3.  Go to the kitchen, pour yourself a glass of water and drink it all. You do NOT drink enough water. Nobody in America does. Water is the elixir of elixirs. It flushes toxins out of your body, provides an environment which lets your electrolytes and all other aspects of your biochemistry function at maximum efficiency.

4.  Go to the bathroom, take care of "business," brush your teeth, wash the sleep out of your face and eyes and brush and comb your hair. You're getting ready for battle: The battle to have a good day. Doing all the above will wake you up a little, freshen you up a bit and "set-you-up" to get going.

5.  Next, put on some exercise clothes like sweatpants, a sweatshirt and sneakers. Make this a ritual. You are dressing for battle: An assault on the forces of negativism.

6.  Leave the house immediately and take a 20-minute walk. You're outside, you're breathing fresh air, you're getting your circulation going, you're becoming more mentally alert. Some of the fog begins to lift from your mind. You begin to notice your environment, see the colors of the fall foliage, the bloom of a spring flower, the dew on the grass on a summer morning, the untrodden snow in mid-winter. NOTE: This is NOT exercise. This is a loosening up; a "defogging" of your mind and allowing your body to gently warm up for its daily tasks.

7.  As soon as you get back, woof down a nutritionally-dense protein drink made by mixing the contents of a packet of Myoplex, Met-RX or Lean Body with eight ounces of fat-free milk and a banana. This will infuse your body with nearly all the vitamins, minerals, electrolytes, and other good stuff to help your body and mind function at peak throughout the day.

8.  Scarf down a packet of vitamins and minerals like  Dr. Julian Whitaker's "FORWARD PLUS." More insurance you're getting the minimum (at least) ingredients your body needs to run efficiently.

9.  Take a shower. Part of the ritual of getting ready to battle the day.

10.  Dress in fresh, crisp clothes and go about your day. Ritual completed. You're loosened up, oxygenated, clean, crisp, nourished, starting your day with no added baggage.

 

Is this the perfect way to start a day? No, but it's a very good way. Maybe someday, after your 20-minute walk, you'll extend it to some power-walking, a jog or a run. After your roadwork, maybe you'll pump a little iron.

But, that's for the future. Maybe. Don't think about it now. Just give the above routine a shot for seven weeks and I guarantee your life will be better. Much better. It may sound funny and incredibly simplistic but, that's the advice I'd give you if I could only give you one piece of advice. It's based on years of exhaustive personal research on my part... that proves... the best way to get a good day started is to...

Get Up And
Get Going!

Here's a few odds and ends: My Viagra research in Brazil went very well. There's only a handful of Americans in Rio and they are not particularly eager to encourage other Americans to go there. Neither am I.

There's a website I think some of you (certainly not all of you) should visit. It's www.realdoll.com. These people make synthetic women. Not blow-up dolls, but rather, these things are extremely realistic, "real" fake women. Howard Stern had one on his show. They sell for $6,000+ and the shipping cost alone is $700.00. These dealybops are so realistic, they've got me thinking: If this is available now...

Just Think What You'll
Be Able To Buy Five
Years From Now!

Still pining for your ex-wife? Send in a photo of her and an audio tape of her voice and they'll make a new and improved, more "user friendly" version of her for you.

Fantasizing about Claudia Schiffer, Pamela Lee or the current Playmate of the month? Custom-order her from someplace like www.realdoll.com five years from now and I bet they'll replicate her for you complete with programming so she will respond only to your voice with the type of moaning and groaning you want to hear: "Oh baby, you're so big!" Or, "Oh, my God! It's never been like this for me before!"

Real relationships are rapidly reaching redundancy. Why put up with a whining bitching mate when you can have all the good stuff with none of the bad?

WARNING: This is an X-rated website. So don't go there if you will be offended. On the other hand, if you do visit the site, be sure to check out the FAQ's (Frequently Asked Questions).

You know, the truth is, pornography is often at the forefront of technology. The real reason I want you to visit this site is not to get some libidinous thrill. The real reason is, of all the sites I've seen on the 'Net, this is the one that has most amazed me.

You'll see.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


P.S.	God bless you and MERRY CHRISTMAS and HAPPY HANUKKAH! Take care of yourself. Be safe during the holidays and have a joyous New Year.

As ever, Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Meditation For Miserable People Who Want To Stay That Way! Audio Version Contains Bonus Material Available Here

Kilde: https://thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zhlg_meditation.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

   Not that you should care... but... I no longer have a woman in my life.

   I'm terrible with women. In spite of my advanced years, there have been very few members of the opposite sex with whom I've had a "serious" or even semi-serious relationship.

   They've all gone bad. And, it was never my fault. Not even a little bit. It was always "them" who ruined everything.

   The last one, the one that just ended was with a lady who is blond, pretty, slim, (she exercises like a fiend) and extremely intelligent. An upstate and a "city" New Yorker. A graduate from Syracuse University with a bachelor's in psychology and a master's in special education. Worked with abused children for about eight years until she couldn't handle it anymore. Loves classical music, got me to love it too. Was delighted when I called her on my cell phone from Pavoratti's magnificent concert here in Miami Beach. She wasn't home but, when she got back to her apartment... there was Luciano himself singing live on her answering machine.

   Magic.

   Sadly, this woman (even after a full year of exposure to me) has not found it within her to accept the simple and obvious truth that Gary Halbert is "the man who should always get his way."

   The last "sort of" love of my life (before the aforementioned bull-headed pit viper) was a young southern girl who was beautiful inside and out. I remember when I brought her back to Key West how she sat on the plane in her little southern dress, wearing a funny, little southern hat... and... reading her Bible all the way to make sure God wouldn't let the plane go down.

   Truly special. She had a "sweetness of soul" and a "goodness" which I've only seen in one other woman. (Paulette Teta.) She was as slender and pretty as a flower. I say "was" because she was murdered about a month ago. Stabbed 14 times in one of the most hideous acts of violence of this decade. But, of course, the guy who did it was not O.J., Sherry Pierce was not Nicole Simpson, and so, I guess this "Life Interrupted" (at age 29) was of comparatively little consequence.

   Not to those of us who were blessed by knowing her, though.

   And then there's Paulette herself who is now married to an Episcopalian priest. How can that be? How could any woman abandon me, a gentle man of tact and delicacy for what I would assume to be a blunt, mean-spirited and socially indelicate man of the cloth? Actually, I'd bet just about anything he is, in fact, a wonderful man. He'd just about have to be to capture the heart and soul of someone as special as Paulette.

   Congratulations to the both of you. I mean that from the bottom of my heart. Go with God and never cease to value and cherish each other.

   Then there was Nancy, Loretta, Arlene, Christine and all the others who didn't deserve me. It's all so unfair. Therefore, I've made the only intelligent decision I can think of... which is...

I'm Finished With
Women Forever!

   I've decided to become a pro at self-pity. I love to feel sorry for myself. And fortunately, I've found some help with this. I've come across a book which has become my personal Bible. It's called...

Meditations For Miserable People
(Who Want To Stay That Way)

   This book helps me stay centered on the true nature of my being. It contains invaluable insights which I now totally embrace. They have become so much a part of me now, that these thoughts pop up automatically anytime I start to get off base:

L   If I let go of the feelings which cause me pain, I would have no feelings at all.

L   When God shuts the door, He opens a window... then pisses out of it onto my life.

L   I deserve true love... even if it costs me $3.99 a minute.

L   The first step in finding God is accepting His presence and the fact He's just ignoring me.

L   If I am honest with myself, loneliness and despair are easily within reach.

L   (Here's my favorite): A new day can begin to suck at any time... like right now, for instance.

L   Life is best measured one miserable failure at a time.

L   Jealousy is wanting what others have. Stupidity is thinking I might one day get it.

L   I have no "significant other" because I myself am insignificant.

L   By writing my fears down on paper I will see not only I am afraid of everything but I also have bad penmanship.

L   Life isn't over when we die... it's pretty much over right now.

L   Opportunity is nothing more than discovering a new way to fail.

L   Everyone makes mistakes, especially the people who think I have a life.

L   Painful feelings don't last forever. They're simply replaced by more painful feelings.

L   God isn't saving the best for last, He's saving it for someone other than me.

L   The ending of one failure is nothing more than the beginning of another.

L   Inside every problem lies the seeds to even more problems.

L   Being willing to ask for help is the first step in realizing no one wants to help a loser like me.

   And so on. There is much more truth and wisdom in this book. I highly recommend it. It was written by Dan Goodman, published by St. Martin's Paperbacks, costs only $7.99 and it's in all the big bookstores. Get it. It can help you be more like me! By the way, the final page in this wonderful, little guide to life offers up a true gem. Here are the words I now live by:

"God grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know I really can't do either."

   Enough nourishment for the soul. Let's talk about business. One of my clients is Phillips Publishing. As far as I can tell, they have every really great copywriter in the U.S. already working for them. That means they have all six or eight of us.

   Writing for Phillips requires every ounce of skill, concentration and judgment a copywriter can possess. Just the research alone for one of their projects can take up to 500 hours. Beyond that, whomever is doing the research needs to be skilled on what to research.

   How does Phillips get these great copywriters? Simple: They pay more than any other company in the U.S. At Phillips, nobody makes as much money as the copywriters except the owner, Tom Phillips. This is as it should be. And, you know what's funny? Phillips is eager and willing to find copywriters they can pay $1,000,000 per year and more.

   But it seems there are hardly any left. These days, the task is not to find any more great copywriters. No, now the task is to find someone (anyone) who can maybe be taught to become one and...

To Do The Amount Of
Work That's Required!

   Different copywriters work in different ways. One of the best, John Carlton, always starts by writing the "bullets" first. After that, he then goes on to writing the headline, subhead, body copy and ordering instructions. "Bullets" are extremely important. They are the little one or two line "teaser" statements about whatever it is the copywriter is trying to sell you.

   OK, now that I've reminded you of the importance of "bulletizing", I've got a very important observation to share with you. Did you see the movie Jurassic Park? The guy who wrote it wrote an earlier book titled Congo which I've just started to read. (By the way, it's a "can't-put-it-downer".) Anyway, the book is populated with several really top level researchers who have I.Q.'s reaching to the stars. These people compete for grant money to fund their research projects. One of the characters in the book is especially adept at getting grants.

   Yes, he is brilliant and doing important research. But, so are the other scientists competing against him for their funds. Why does he get chosen so often over the others? Simply, because he is obsessed with his project. Here's a quote from the book:

"Sometimes it's difficult to tell who is the more brilliant but we look for something more important: We look for who is the most driven!"

   That's a point so valid, you should never forget it. Years ago, I was driven. I was obsessed with becoming the best advertising copywriter in the world. Whether or not I succeeded is beside the point. What's germane is what I did in furtherance of this noble goal: (1) I ignored my wife, (2) I ignored my children, (3) I wrote advertising during the day, (4) I studied advertising in the evening and (5) ...

I Dreamt About
It At Night!

   Would you like to be good enough to write for Phillips or some other company which would be happy to pay you a million or more every year? Or, do it yourself so you can pay yourself a huge pile of money?

   Let's see if you've got what it takes.

   Go get five hundred 3x5 index cards. Go to a big newsstand and get dozens of magazines. (If you're strapped for money, you can do this in a library for free.) Only get those magazines with lots of teaser copy ("bullets") on the covers. Cosmopolitan is just about tops when it comes to this. Write one bullet on each index card. Try to pick out only really "Hot Bullets." Keep at it until you have 500 cards with 500 bullets. Then, make a copy of all those 500 cards and send them to me.

   What will you get if you do this? Most importantly, you'll get a neurological imprint of writing good bullets. Secondly, you'll get mentioned in this newsletter as someone who is "willing to pay the price." Thirdly, if, in addition to being willing to also pay the price, you also have (or later develop) some talent in writing complete marketing packages, there's a chance I'll give your name to one of the legions of people who call me to see if I can recommend a good copywriter.

   But, the real payoff is what you'll be giving yourself by the simple act of doing it.

   Unfortunately, there are no shortcuts.

   But, how do you recognize a "Hot Bullet"? Well, until you get some experience, it is somewhat subjective. However, here's some help: What follows is a collection of bullets on different subjects. Each of these was written by John Carlton and nobody is better at "bulletizing" than him. Study John's work. Start by writing each of these bullets on a separate 3x5 index card. Then, when you "have the feel" for it, you go out to the magazine stand or library and do whatever's necessary until you've got 500 more.

   Sucks, doesn't it? Can't say as I blame you if you don't want to be bothered with this... but... just in case you've got the stuff, here's John's bullets to get you started:

The 58 most important questions you need to ask yourself before you can really start to pile up the profits in your business!

The 7-step formula that even an illiterate drop-out can use to write advertising copy 100 times more potent than the best Madison Avenue ad agency!

How the 3 Basic Elements found in every single successful (multi-million dollar) television infomercial can also be used to boost the profitability of your newspaper ads!

Why your "back end" may be 1,000 times more profitable than your initial sale... and what to do to take advantage of it now!

Tips from trouble-shooting experts on how to spot problems hurting your business and the triple-step technique they use to solve them fast!

The 10 easiest markets "rookie" copywriters can tap for maximum profit with minimum risk!

"Insider" tips from the world's savviest (and richest) businessmen on how to shortcut your way to obscene riches and success!

A truly "no brainer" (yet usually overlooked) way to bump the amount of your average order by 100% or more... automatically!

The absolutely essential First 3 Things you must do before you attempt to sell anything to anyone!

How to find -- without spending a red cent -- the perfect magazines and newspapers (with the most rabid and eager-to-buy readers) to run your ads in all over the world!

Why you're already sitting on the best possible "bonus" you could ever offer -- and how to use it to make your sales soar!

20 Guaranteed Ways to increase readership and response to your sales letters and ads... without touching your current copy!

The single most important element of any sales message... and how to exploit it for maximum sales!

The Real Reason people choose to buy anything -- the secret truth long known by master salesmen, sociologists and "con men" finally revealed!

How to put on your own seminars without nightmares... including how much to charge, how to structure the daily sessions, and how to write the all-important sales letter that puts the fannies in the seats!

Exact word-for-word samples of sales letters that brought in millions... and how to adapt those same letters for your own business!

Tested appeals and "grabbers" that guarantee readership... and tested "closers" that almost force people to send you money!

Why having money or a nice car is 100% irrelevant to having a great love-life! (And the 3 "basics" that are relevant, but ignored by nearly every lonely guy!)

How to "read" the signals of women who are dying to date you right now! (They think they're being obvious, but I'll bet you're blind to these signals. Just learning this one secret -- how to "read" women -- will boost your "romance potential" through the roof!)

Proven ways to get women to initiate "accidental" dates that are pressure-free!

How to easily "position" yourself so women actually compete for your attention!

How to turn everyday items in your pocket (or your wife's purse) into vicious weapons that will (1) show you mean business, (2) instantly frighten anyone with an ounce of common sense, and (3) allow you to dominate any situation with a single blow!

How to maintain the "right" kind of peak sexual energy that excites women! (Most guys worry -- unnecessarily -- about "performance"... but you won't, anymore!)

The one huge mistake all inexperienced fighters make in their head that guarantees they will be turned into victims... and how to "parlay" it into an advantage that will give YOU an instant 200% increase in your chances of winning -- even if it's your first fight ever!

Why your weight, strength, speed and agility are the least important parts of winning a street altercation! (And why the one simple secret that is important will give you an immediate and enormous advantage over any other fighter you meet!)

How to automatically avoid the blunders that get even nationally-ranked karate masters demolished in street fights! (It's called "Stress Shock Phenomenon", and once you've stored this knowledge in your nervous system, you'll never "freeze up"  or panic when your adrenaline starts to flow and the dirt hits the fan! Yet there isn't a karate studio in the country that knows how to teach this crucial part of winning fights!)

Why your fist may be the absolute worst weapon you can use in hand-to-hand combat! (And exactly how to strike so you won't damage any part of yourself!)

Simple fight-ending moves that require no strength whatsoever! (I know of arthritic 80-year-old grandmothers who have knocked young male attackers senseless!)

The "voice tool" that will immediately change your attitude from calm to dominant in any surprise situation!

How to use a little-known "positioning secret" to completely cancel out the superior size or experience of your attacker! (Size and strength are meaningless when you know this secret!)

Why a simple "mock" submissive action will always fool a larger opponent... and set him up for quick, easy fight-ending moves!

How to gain an immediate "Psychological Edge" when someone pulls a knife on you... and how to spot the 4 most common methods of knife attacks so you can win with a minimum of fuss and blood!

How to "set up" the perfect sexual encounter with your lover every time!

The clumsy mistakes 90% of all men make during lovemaking... and how to quickly learn the "inside" secrets of the most satisfied 10%!

The NUMBER ONE rule that absolutely must be observed for women to have a truly mind-blowing orgasm!

The secret "reward" for men who give their women the "fuel" for feeling in love all day long, every day! (Not one man in a thousand understands this "fail-safe" secret of excruciating happiness... and those who do almost never share it with even their closest friends!)

How to guarantee every thought your lover has of you is super-charged with pleasure, excitement and white-hot anticipation!

The 20-minute secret that can turn your sex life around overnight! (It's so simple, you'll kick yourself for not having thought of it yourself!)

How to "touch" a woman to guarantee mind-altering sex... a technique so simple it's astonishing that nearly 3/4's of all women never learn it themselves!

Why smart men know how a simple "secret" non-sexual act at home can -- when handled correctly -- take on the "charged" quality of a warm, sexually-satisfying feeling for many women! (It's so simple it's almost like "cheating"!)

The specific secrets of "over the top" fabulous sexual technique! (Have you ever "blacked out" from pure sexual pleasure before?)

What women really want from a man! (Nine out of ten men are absolutely floored by this secret!)

The amazing reason why Prozac is so popular in this country! (Almost no one understands the startling sexual implications!)

How to start having explosive sex tonight... with the simple basics of great, world-class love techniques!

The secret of finding the most efficient aerobic program for burning off fat with your specific body type! (Leo researched for 7 months with professional bodybuilding stars in the U.S. and Germany to discover the key to this "inside" secret!)

Details of the all-new "Eat Everything You Love" diet that frightened the professionals... until they saw Leo change into the leanest, meanest muscleman they'd ever seen! (It's the easiest, yet most potent diet you've ever seen... one you can live on happily for the rest of your life! Leo was gobbling banana milkshakes, carrot cake, soda pop, ice cream and "Mama Juanita's" super-grande burritos on "carb-days" throughout his training!)

Why the "experts" you read about in the muscle mags are just dead-wrong in much of their training advice for you for maximum growth! (Even though a technique may have worked for them, it might not work for you... especially if you follow the advice of juice-heads who have spent most of their lives training on steroids!)

How to handle the "side-effects" of your increased sexual energy you'll get on this program! (A real unexpected bonus!)

How a "secret" 5-inch change in your hip placement translates into massive power for your golf stroke! (Not one pro in a thousand even suspects the potency of this simple adjustment!)

Why the new "lag" in your swing will cause your buddies to shake their heads... until they see you consistently out-drive them by 40, 50 and 60 yards off every tee! (I guarantee they'll make you play with one of their balls, just to make sure you aren't cheating somehow!)

How to use the secret of "choking down" to master any club in your bag... no matter how horrible you were with it before!

The single most important move you can make in any altercation -- it's what your body wants to do, but what most people panic about and refuse to allow themselves to do! (Yet it will save your life!)

How to use a simple "cat-like" move to instantly position yourself to deliver the easiest knock-out blow imaginable -- a strike so natural your grandmother could pull it off against Mike Tyson!

How to instantly "shut down" an attacker's testosterone levels, using your body's own built-in "brick". (Even a 90 lb. woman possesses this amazing rock-hard weapon!)

When to use the most simple strike you'll ever learn... an unstoppable natural move so effective in ending fights it's not allowed in full-contact karate tournaments! (Instant disqualification -- it's also a move that 99% of the most brutal street fighters you'll ever encounter have never seen before... and don't know how to defend against!)

How to use the "hip-swinging secret" soldiers use to drop opponents instantly -- no speed or strength required, yet it's like driving a 160 lb. bar of lead into the bad guy's belly! (It's so effective, you don't even have to come close to hitting your "target" area... even the sloppiest attempt by you will bring him to his knees!)

How to use a super-effective, completely unexpected technique straight out of the "Three Stooges" to cause any attacker to automatically (1) back up, (2) raise his hands in defense, and (3) blink rapidly... all of which instantaneously reverses the tables and makes your attacker suddenly vulnerable to a fight-ending blow you can deliver in your own sweet time!

Why all elite soldiers are given "permission" to use the one street fighter's Secret Weapon we are all taught from kindergarten not to use... and how you can use it to quickly remove yourself from any situation where you have been surprised from behind!

How to use the other "dirty" street-fighting tool not allowed in any civilized boxing or karate match... because of it's immediate ability to disorientate and topple your opponent! (It also works when you do it incorrectly!)

   Hey, that was fun reading, wasn't it? However, let me remind you once again: YOU CAN'T WRITE LIKE THIS WITHOUT PAYING THE PRICE!

   Get those index cards. Write out those bullets. Then write out 500 more. Give yourself the gift of a "million dollar neurological imprint"!

   It will serve you well the rest of your days.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.  Oh wait! I now have an underground "jungle" video (no "production values" at all) on a secret, low-tech device that can help (if you have a personal computer) increase your cash-flow by as much as 10,000%! If you want a copy of this video, you're going to have to shell out $35.00 to get it.

      Just write your name and address and the words "underground video" on a piece of paper and send it to my office with your check or money order made out to "The Gary Halbert Letter."

      Please don't call. The people who work with me don't know what this is all about and I don't have the time to personally explain it to several thousand people. Also, you should not order unless you have a PC. This video won't do you any good at all unless you are at least a tiny bit computer literate.

            Whatever

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## AIDA!

Kilde: https://thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/zszs_aida.htm

From:
Jewfish Creek



Dear Friend & Subscriber,

There is something a tiny bit different about this newsletter from all of the other newsletters I have written in recent years. Did you catch it?

Just in case you didn't, if you'll reflect a moment, all of my newsletters in recent years have said, "From: South of Jewfish Creek" or "From: North of Jewfish Creek." That's because during the past several years, I have measured where I am on this planet in relation to the location of Jewfish Creek.

Jewfish Creek is approximately two miles long and it is located at the northern tip of the Florida Keys. There is a small drawbridge which has to open up for you if you are on a boat of any size going either north or south on Jewfish Creek. This drawbridge is located on the road which goes over Jewfish Creek which is known as either U.S. Highway 1 or A-1-A. Incidentally, U.S.1 goes north all the way to the northernmost part of Maine... and... south to the southernmost point in the continental United States in Key West, Florida.

For many people, the 18-mile stretch of U.S.1 which Jewfish Creek flows beneath is known as what you might call a "Second Mason-Dixon Line." If you are anywhere south of Jewfish Creek, you are in Monroe County, Florida in which all of the Florida Keys are located. If you are almost anywhere north of Jewfish Creek, you are in Dade County which encompasses all of Greater Miami.

Jewfish Creek is not just a physical location. It is a boundary between two distinct civilizations. South of Jewfish Creek (in the Florida Keys) almost all the people you encounter will be laid-back, "American-Americans" who are basically content on minding their own business and leading pleasurable lives.

When you are north of Jewfish Creek (in Greater Miami) most of the residents are "Latin-Americans" who live dysfunctional lives at such a frenzied pace, it is hard for the rest of us to comprehend. And, in Dade County, English is for real a second language. Some of the stores in Miami actually have signs in them that say: "English Spoken Here."

My legal address is the same address on the masthead of this newsletter. However, since I live on a 52' ocean-going houseboat, most of the time my resident address is wherever I choose it to be in South Florida.

For those of you who know about such things as a GPS Device (Global Positioning System) the precise geographical location of Jewfish Creek is 2511.015N 08023.268W.

OK, now that I've given you a fair amount of information which probably held no interest for you whatsoever, let me switch to a topic about which I know you are extremely interested in... which is, of course...

Making More Fungolas!

Listen, you know what the hardest part of writing a sales message is? It's getting started. And do you know what is the most-often missing ingredient in a sales message? It's the sales message doesn't tell an interesting story.

As I've repeated endless times in this newsletter, the formula for making a sale via direct response is AIDA, which stands for:

Attention

Interest

Desire

Action

Many people spend most of their time (and justifiably so) on writing compelling headlines. But often, what comes after the headline is not of much interest to the reader. So, what I'm going to give you this month is a bunch of real world ways to begin a sales message by starting to tell a story devised to capture your reader's attention.

Here are the examples:


Dear Friend,

How would you like to have a guarantee you could have anything (and I mean anything) in the world you could possibly want?

Believe it or not, now you can!

You see, there are a small number of "mind scientists" who have been quietly working (behind the scenes) to find out exactly what a person has to do... to get... virtually anything he or she wants.

These are not "scientists" with formal degrees. Many of them have never been to college. However, they have rather loosely united to share with each other their absolutely mind-boggling discoveries. At the top of the mountain of this unique group of people is an attractive, energetic woman named Cynthia Kersey. She has written a book about how anyone can become...

Unstoppable!

 

 


Dear Friend,

Did you know the quality of your smile has a more direct effect on your personal (and business) relationships than any other part of your appearance?

In fact, 88% of all people in North America say they always remember someone with an especially attractive smile. Not only that, 75% agree an unattractive smile can seriously hurt a person's chances for financial success. Perhaps, that's why more than half of the adults in America wish they could change their smile. Some adults want to correct problems they have had since childhood like discolored, crooked or irregular-shaped teeth. Others want to fix conditions they've developed over time, like cracked, worn-down and discolored teeth. There is good reason for this. You see...

Your Smile Can Make Or Break You!

For hundreds of years, all the way from Mona Lisa to today's cover girls, the absence or presence of a dazzling smile has always carried great significance. It is a reliable indication of a person's sense of well-being and has an enormous impact on a person's health, self-esteem... and... both personal and business relationships.

 

 


Dear Mr. Everett,

As you can see, I am sending you a $1.00 bill with this letter.

I'm doing this for a reason: This is the most important letter you will ever read and I needed some way to make sure this letter would catch your attention.

And, quite frankly, there is ANOTHER reason I am sending you this dollar bill. I'll tell you the other reason in a minute... but first... there is a strange story I have to tell you. In fact, I've got to get this off my chest before I explode!

Listen, I know you live in Massillon, Ohio. I've never been there and I don't know much about that area. However, I looked it up in my Atlas of the United States and I noticed it is about 40 miles south of Cleveland. And here is why the location of Massillon, Ohio is so interesting to me.

 

 


Dear Friend,

Have you ever wanted to make some really big money? Maybe become a millionaire or even... a multi-millionaire?

If so... and... if you live in or near Boston... there is now a very real chance you will be able to do it.

Here is why: Three years ago, a man who was dying of cancer hired a very smart individual (she had an IQ of 170) to work on a research project... to find out...

What Would Be The Very Best Way
To Get Rich In Boston After
The Year 2000 Had Come And Gone?

 

 

 


Dear Friend,

If you own or operate a business or, if you are simply someone who would like to make a lot of money very quickly, this may be the most exciting message you will ever read.

Here is why: My name is Gary Halbert and, some time ago, I was dead broke. My business was almost bankrupt and I couldn't even pay the rent. Actually, I wasn't just broke, I was desperate.

Then, one day, I came up with a "crazy idea" about how to write a certain kind of sales letter (it was not a chain letter) that would get people to send me money.

 

 


Dear Friend,

My name is Betty Adams and, the first thing you should know about me is... I am not a doctor.

I'm not an expert on nutrition either. I never went to college and I don't have a degree in anything. In fact, the only thing I consider myself an "expert" about is...

I Think I Know How Almost Any Woman In
America Can Lose Up To 63 Pounds
In A Very Easy Way!

I know... because... I did it.

 


Dear Friend,

As you know, if you are a Hollywood star, you... must... look good.

Not only that... in most cases (if you are a woman)... you must also... look young! What this means is, sooner or later, many female stars are almost forced to get plastic surgery.

But, not any more. Now, at last, there is a new scientific product (developed by a scientist in Texas) which 100% eliminates the need for Hollywood stars (or, anyone else for that matter) to ever again have to go to a doctor to perform surgery to look younger. This means:

 

 


Dear Friend,

There is now a "secret weapon" which makes it possible for long-haul truckers to pay zero taxes.

And, before you even ask, I want to tell you it is 100% legal!

How many times have you gone to bed wondering just how much longer you can survive sky-high fuel prices? Even if you are fortunate enough to be "getting by," wouldn't it be nice to have some financial "breathing room"?

Well, guess what? I have some serious financial relief for you... if... you are willing to try a little "experiment."

 

 


Dear Friend,

Let's talk about how the size of a woman's breasts relates to her I.Q.

The size of a woman's breasts is measured by the cup size of her bra. A woman who wears an "A" cup is generally considered to have small breasts. A woman who wears a "D" cup bra is generally considered to have large breasts. A woman with even larger breasts might wear a "double D" ("DD") or even a "triple D" ("DDD") bra.

There are even "E" cup bras and "F" cup bras and "H" cup bras. These bras are made for women with extraordinarily large breasts.

Remember Jo Cavanaugh, the computer expert I told you about in my last letter? She wears an "I" cup bra... and... it is a "triple I" ("III") size. Just for the record, the actual size of her breasts is 52III.

Let me tell you something else about Jo. While it's true she has huge breasts, that is perhaps the least important component of her as a human being. She is a Christian woman with incredibly high moral standards and probably the brightest computer mind I've ever encountered. Yet, when you see her for the first time, before you get to know her truly well, most likely you will be so "dazzled" by her physical assets, you won't be able to see further into her mind and personality... and discover... she is (when it comes to computers) almost the equivalent of a female Einstein.

So, why am I telling you all this? 

 

 


Dear Friend,

Did you know that your family name was recorded with a coat-of-arms in ancient heraldic archives more than seven centuries ago?

My husband and I discovered this while doing some research for some friends of ours who have the same last name as you do. We've had an artist recreate the coat-of-arms exactly as described in the ancient records. This drawing, along with other information about the name, has been printed up into an attractive one-page report.

 

 


Dear Friend,

If you would like to know how someone can start with a simple idea... and then... generate over $51,000,000 in sales in just one year... this is going to be the most interesting message you will ever read.

Here is why: There's a guy in California named Carl Palmer who, until recently, was very wealthy and very bored. He got rich (the first time) by starting a company in 1970 which he sold out to Coca-Cola just three years later in 1973. As part of the deal, he had to sign a "non-compete" agreement with a duration of five years.

After that five years ended, he went back in business and built up another company which was soon acquired by the giant AMF Corporation. After that, Carl developed Shackley's reverse osmosis home water filtration system... and... in the first year... they did $51 million in sales with that product.

And so on.

You get the idea. What this guy does is, he comes up with enormously valuable inventions, starts a company to sell these inventions... and soon... he goes nuts with all the hassles of running a business... and so... he sells out (at a huge profit) to some giant corporation that has the resources and the clout to exploit the living daylights out of whatever it is he has invented.

But now, he has outdone himself. Now, at the request of Seychelle Technologies, Inc., he has invented something which is needed by every human being in the world... and...

This Invention Is Almost Certain To
Generate Billions In Sales!

 

 


Dear Friend,

Do you ever have arthritis pain?

If so, this will be the most important message you will ever read.

Here is why: There is a man in Texas named Steven C. Ammerman. He is the president of SCA International and, while on a Vietnam Veteran's ministry trip to Russia in 1992, he decided to start an import-export company.

During his first year in business, a man approached him by the name of Mr. California. (That's his nickname. His real name is John Q. Everett.)   Mr. California had been using a pill he was getting from Bulgaria. This is a pill Bulgarian body builders were using to double and triple their stamina. Mr. Ammerman contacted the pharmaceutical company which produces the pill and had five boxes sent to him. And guess what? That's when Mr. Everett discovered the major "side effect" of this muscle-building pill is the almost 100% elimination of arthritis pain!

 

 


Dear Friend,

I'll bet you remember exactly where you were when you first heard the news about the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon. Nearly everyone does. And nearly everyone (especially investors) remembers how this disaster shut down all the major stock exchanges in the United States for nearly an entire week.

When the market reopened on Monday, September 17th, it experienced the largest point drop in history. The Dow dropped 684.81 points for a percentage loss of 7.13% in just one trading day. The Transportation Index did even worse. It dropped 404.81 points for a one-day percentage loss of 15.12%. The NASDAQ fell 115.82 for a one-day percentage loss of 6.83%.

All in all, it was one of the worst days in the history of the stock market.

But Here Is Something Almost
Nobody Bothered To Notice...

On that very same day, on the NYSE, 1144 stocks advanced in price and 63 of those stocks actually went up to new highs!

On the NASDAQ, 1409 stocks advanced in price and 35 of those stocks skyrocketed to new highs!

On the AMEX, 285 stocks increased in price with 12 of them hitting new highs!

This means that... on one of the worst days in the history of the major markets, a total of 2838 stocks actuallly advanced in price... and... a total of 110 of those stocks went up in value to a price higher than they had ever sold for before.

How About A 165.3% Gain
In Just That One Day?

That's what a company called InVision Technologies (INVN) experienced. And what about a company called Viisage Technology (VISG)? It went up that day 142.2%! Or ICTS International (ICTS) which skyrocketed 113.3%! Or Avistar Communications (AVSR) which made a gain of 100.1%!

Aside from those triple digit gainers there were many stocks that made double digit percentage gains like American Science and Engineering (ASE) up 97.6%... or... Vicon Industries (VII) up 83.7%... or Hi-Shear Technology (HSR) up 76%... or... Identix (IDNX) up 71.4%... or... Olympic Cascade Financial (OLY) up 52.2%!

Enough. I think I've made my point... which is...

If You Know How To Pick The Right Stocks...
You Can Still Make Dozens Of Highly-Profitable Trades...
Even If... The Rest Of The Market Is Falling Apart!

But, how in the world can anyone (especially given today's economic turmoil) pick winning stocks day after day? Is there any way... for real... to beat today's stock market? YES! And, get this...

It's Easy!

 

 

OK, if the examples I have just given you have not jump started your "fungolas-seeking mind" it is obvious you don't have a drop of entrepreneurial/marketing blood in your body... and... I suggest you start looking for some place "safe" to work such as a giant corporation like Enron.

However, I think most all of my readers are smart enough to get the point. And the point is... storytelling... good storytelling... is a vital component of a marketing campaign.

Now let's talk about my upcoming "Patches of Light Seminar." I told you in my last letter there was going to be something very special about the seminar but, you would have to attend to find out what that "special" thing was going to be. I've changed my mind (I can do that because there's a highly developed feminine side to me) and I've decided to tell you what that "special" thing is right now.

The most valuable seminars I have ever given were those where myself and my other marketing friends (the most important, by far, being John Carlton) would invite members of the audience to come up and share the stage with us. We would ask the attendee to describe his or her business and their particular marketing problems. Then, right there at the seminar, in real time, John and I would so quickly and cleverly solve their marketing problems... that Dan Kennedy described what John and I were doing as "working-without-a-net." However, even though it took only a few minutes for John and I to solve these marketing problems... what the attendees (as well as some of the other speakers) failed to realize was... it had taken John and I a couple decades of blood, sweat and tears through trial and error to now know how to instantly solve their problems.

Another thing about me and seminars is, usually, when I speak at a seminar (either mine or someone else's) I am somewhat held back for reasons of "political correctness" from telling some of the attendees what they really need to hear. Not so with my "Patches of Light" seminar.

You see, John Carlton will be with me at my seminar and the exciting thing for both of us is...

We Are NOT Going To Make
The Smallest Attempt Whatsoever
To Be Politically Correct!

You know something? I think even my good friends like Joe Polish, Dan Kennedy, Mark Victor Hansen, Bob Allen, etc. are reluctant to have me speak at their seminars because they consider me "too dangerous." And I must  admit, their concern is justifiable. The truth be told, left to my own devices, I would (and so would John Carlton) tell  the attendees of any seminar... why... nearly all the other speakers and so-called "marketing experts" are totally full of shit... and... how they are trying to force feed the attendees advice which will put a serious dent in their bank accounts.

Well, at my "Patches of Light" seminar, John and I are going to let it all hang out. We're going to tell the audience what they really need to know to succeed in any form of marketing including the Internet, direct mail campaigns, magazine and newspaper advertising, radio advertising, TV advertising, postcard advertising, billboard advertising and even skywriting.

And, at my "Patches of Light" seminar, nobody is going to be selling anything to the attendees. There is no secret agenda.

I've wanted to put on a seminar like this all my life and so has John. I bet my "Patches of Light" seminar will be remembered longer than any other seminar you've ever gone to... or... will ever go to... in your entire lifetime... simply because...

You Are Going To Have Two Of The Most Brilliant Minds In
All Of Marketing Telling You The REAL Truth About What
You Need To Know... And... We Will NOT Be Making Any
Attempt  Whatsoever  To  "Please"  All  The  Other
Marketing Experts Who Like To "Play It Safe"!

Anyway, within the next ten days, my #1 Trusty Assistant Theresa, will finalize all the details for this seminar. She will then be notifying everyone who wants to attend of all these details such as... the name, address, telephone number and contact person at the hotel, the hours of the seminar, and so forth.

Remember, the dates for my "Patches of Light" seminar are Friday, Saturday and Sunday, April 19, 20 and 21, 2002 in sunny Orlando, Florida. Hope to see you there.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"Storyteller" Extraordinaire


P.S.	

Everybody who owns a boat in Miami or Fort Lauderdale, Florida has to move their boat out of Dade County for the month of February. This is to accommodate the Miami Boat Show, which I believe is the biggest boat show in the world. This February, I chose to move my boat to the marina connected to the Anchorage Resort located at the southern entrance of Jewfish Creek. That's why this letter is not coming to you from north, south, east or west of Jewfish Creek. It is coming to you from Jewfish Creek itself, which is where I am... but... where I won't be by the time you receive this letter.

For what it's worth, the rooms at the Anchorage Resort give you more for your money than any hotel or motel I have ever experienced in my entire life. I'd highly recommend you give them a call (305/451-0500) the next time you plan to be near 2511.015N 08023.268W.

Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Write Better Copy, Faster! And... How To Write Copy Like Gary Halbert!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2008/scott/howtowritebettercopyfaster.htm

"How To Write Better Copy, Faster!"

From:
Scott L. Haines
Austin, Texas
Tuesday, 2:37 p.m.
November 4, 2008

Dear Friend,

       In the first part of this report, I'm going to give you 12 "battle-tested" strategies from the frontlines that will help you write better copy, faster.

       Most are quick, easy and painless to implement... a few take a little more effort. But they all...

Just Flat Out Work!

       They are "go to" strategies for many of the most famous copywriters/writers in the world!

       Then, in the second part of this report (titled: "How To Write Copy Like Gary Halbert!"), I'm going to reveal a couple of strategies for writing better copy overall... including... one of Gary's secret copywriting weapons. It's a secret weapon he rarely talked about, but one I witnessed firsthand.

       First though, in case you have no idea who I am, let me briefly introduce myself:

       My name is Scott Haines. Gary often referred to me in his newsletters as "Mongo"... a nickname I picked up when I first started working with him in 1998. How I got it is not important for our purposes here... but... it's in reference to the character "Mongo" from Mel Brooks' movie...

"Blazing Saddles"

       Anyway, through the years I had the pleasure of working side-by-side, learning from, and forming a great friendship with Gary. And in the process, I got a doctorate-level education in direct response marketing and copywriting... which... has given me an outstanding income and lifestyle over the past 10 years (or so) that I could only dream about before.

       In fact, his passing left a huge hole in my life that has been-quite frankly-hard to deal with. However, I've managed through a combination of gratitude (gratitude for the time I got to spend with him) and distraction (both the constructive kind and the destructive kind).

       In any case, I don't want this to be a morose message. Not at all. Gary wouldn't want that. No, what he'd want me to do here-and I'm 100% sure of this-is do my best to impart some of the wisdom I've gathered over the years (some from Gary, some elsewhere) on how to write better copy... both faster... and... overall.

       Let me relate something to you he once told me. During a conversation, I brought up the subject of how my life would be different had I never met him... I said, "You know, I can never repay you for everything you've taught me." And he quickly shot back with, "You don't have to. You just have to teach it to others. It's your obligation."

       Up until that point, I had never considered it my "obligation" or "duty" to pass along what I had learned to others. However, the instant he said that to me, it completely shifted my thinking... a complete paradigm shift, if you will.

       And from that moment on (through e-letters, special reports, personal mentoring and my "how to" copywriting course, Shortcut Copywriting Secrets™), I've been working with that purpose in mind.

       So, if you're ready, I'd like to continue to fulfill on my "obligation" with this report... starting with...

Better Copy, Faster Strategy #1... Set up a proper writing space:

       Almost every great writer I've studied or been exposed to has (or had) a space where they can go that instantly puts them "in the mood" to write. And I'm starting with this piece of advice because I think it's one of those "first things first" things.

       Is it mandatory? No. I often write where I am... coffee shops, bookstores, bars... even in my car sometimes (when a hot idea hits). However, I do have a real writing space. A space that has everything I need... desks, files, my library and so on. And I think, if you're really going to be a productive copywriter, you need a space like this, too.

       You know, we (Gary, Bond and I) used to joke that you know you're in Los Angeles when you hear the words, "Feng Shui". But you know what, after a careful review of the less "airy-fairy" parts of Feng Shui, I think there are some great takeaway ideas there.

       Check it out for yourself, if you want. But however you decide to arrange your writing space, just make sure you do it in a way that inspires you... that lifts your energy... that allows you to be at your best.

       As an aside: I was in Key West a few months ago and, even though I've lived there and been there dozens of times, I'd never visited Ernest Hemingway's house... which is now a museum. Shame on me. So, this trip, I made sure I went. And it was truly a pleasure to see his little second-story writing room just across a catwalk from the main house.

You can't go in there, but it's cool just to check it out through the locked, screen-type door. If you ever visit Key West, go there and take the tour. Tip: Take the tour first, then hang around and browse through the house on your own... and... bring a camera.

Better Copy, Faster Strategy #2... Set up a writing routine:

       When do you do most of your writing? Morning, afternoon, night? I used to be a hardcore nighttime writer. However, over the years, I have found that the best time for me to write is first thing in the morning. After I've had some coffee, of course.

       Here's why:

       These days, I start my pre-writing routine well in advance. In fact, I begin getting ready to write the night before.

       Here's what I do: After I've done all my research, when I know it's time to actually start writing a promo, I have a little routine I follow. It goes like this: Before going to bed, I take all the material I've gathered and gone through in my research phase... things like: sales letters, articles, reports, notes I've taken, and so on. Then, since I've already highlighted or taken notes on all the important points, I skim through all this material... just covering what I've already deemed important. This process usually takes 30 minutes to an hour.

       After that, I sit back and reflect on everything for a few minutes and start asking myself a few key questions like:

       What's the BIG Idea here?

       If I were a prospect for this product, what benefit would I want most?

       What's exciting about this product?

       Next, I simply relax, go to bed and let my subconscious work on the questions and all the material I've covered. (Alternatively, you can actually instruct your subconscious to work on the questions by saying something like, "Dear Subconscious, please give me the perfect answers or solutions to the questions I've asked." Or, "Dear Subconscious, thank you for giving me the perfect answers or solutions to the questions I've asked.")

       And that's it. I don't struggle trying to come up with answers, or solutions, or anything like that. Then, in the morning, I go through my usual writing warm-up and get started. (Note:
In my copywriting mini-course-available here for free-I outline a 7-step formula for "warming up" that I developed when I first started working with Gary. It works. I still use some of the elements of it today... a decade later).

       If all this seems a bit far out to you, just know that almost every writer in the world (of anything) uses this process… knowingly or unknowingly.

       I've heard Sylvester Stallone talk about using it on the hit TV show, "Inside the Actors Studio." Dan Kennedy uses it. Author Robert Louis Stevenson (Treasure Island and Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde) used it. Mark Twain said he never worked a day in his life. That all his humor and all his great writings were due to the fact that he tapped the inexhaustible reservoir of his subconscious mind.

       So, if you'd like a little (or a lot of) help with your writing, give this a technique a shot... even if you're skeptical.

       Also, you can use this "night before" technique at any point during your writing process by simply reading over what you've written that day... and then... sleeping on it. You can ask yourself questions about it if you like... but... it's not totally necessary. Your subconscious will work on it regardless.

       Also, also, no matter when you do most of your writing, may I suggest that you at least try and do it at the same time every day. The reason being: I don't think it's as powerful as what I just outlined, however, your subconscious mind will adjust to a set schedule... and give you an added boost.

Better Copy, Faster Strategy #3... Write, A LOT:

       The best writers, write... and... write a lot. It's that simple. Does that mean you can never take time off? Absolutely not. You'll burn out. But, just as an example, my friend Matt Furey belts out-on an almost daily basis-one, two or more e-mails to his list. And he does this on top of writing an enormous amount of other materials... including newsletters, books, sales letters, etc. And his e-mails are almost always exceptional. Impressive, to say the least.

       But you don't necessarily have to match his pace to be a good writer. However, just know it's possible... and... the more you write and, the more often you write, in general, the better you will become.

Better Copy, Faster Strategy #4... Write for set time periods:

       This piece of advice comes from the late, great copywriter, Gene Schwartz. It's something that virtually eliminates writer's block. Here's what he suggested: Get a timer and set it for 33:33 (that's 33 minutes and 33 seconds)… then, when the alarm goes off, take a five or ten minute break. Then, reset your timer and start again.

       A couple of things:

       First, you can do anything you want during the timed period. You don't have to write but, you can't get up out of your chair. This is great because it takes the pressure of "having to write" off. And, what'll usually happen is, you'll start reading the copy, maybe fiddling around with it a bit... and... before you know it, you'll be working on your promotion.

       Second, during the breaks, do something. Walk around. Have a small snack. Fold some clothes. Or do some other mundane (but not mentally-taxing) task. The idea here is to let your subconscious work. And keeping your mind slightly distracted and your body busy aids the process. Plus, it helps get your blood flowing again. Often answers to pressing problems, fantastic ideas or flashes of inspiration will jump into your mind during these rest periods. And yes, when that happens, you should immediately go back to writing.

       Personally (in addition to the benefits above), I've found this technique to be very helpful from a motivation standpoint. That is, it's measurable, so it adds to my sense of accomplishment or progress. And when I feel like I'm making progress on something, I'm more likely to want to keep moving on it.

       For example: I just plain feel better (i.e. more motivated) if, after a day's writing, I can say to myself, "I wrote for six sessions today." Versus, "I wrote until I got tired."

       And that brings me to another point or tip. I got this tip from a book on working out titled The Naked Warrior by Pavel Tsatsouline. In the book, he quotes Soviet strength expert, Professor Vladimir Zatsiorsky, who suggests you...

"Do as much quality work as possible
while being as fresh as possible."

       This is excellent advice when training your physical body the way he suggests. But I'd also submit that it's excellent advice when you are "training" or "working" mentally, as well. And timed periods with defined rest intervals... help keep you fresh... and... help you accomplish more. At least it works that way for me.

       Try it for a week-or better yet, 21 days-and see if you don't get more done.

Better Copy, Faster Strategy #5... Write something easy first:

       If you're having trouble getting started, it's probably because you're putting too much pressure on yourself... or... you're starting with something difficult. The antidote (in addition to using a timer)? Simple. Start with something easy.

       A personal example: Right now, I'm tired. I got roughly 3 1/2 hours of sleep last night... so... I didn't feel like working on this report today. However, as a pro, I must. So, instead of starting in a place where I needed to do a little research, or maybe where I was hung up a little when I stopped... I set my timer and started here. A relatively easy part of this report to write. And you know what, I'm starting to pick up a some steam. Most people have heard this quote by Goethe...

"What you can do, or dream you can do, begin it!
Boldness has genius, power and magic in it."

       And it really holds up. Whether you're starting a new business or career, or just starting a day's work... the secret is to just get started or "begin it!"

       For instance, when you're writing a sales letter, you can start with the bullets. My good friend John Carlton gave me that advice almost a decade ago and it's paid off in spades.

       You can also start with something like the guarantee copy... which... if you write copy long enough, will be almost boilerplate for you. That is, you'll have one or more ways you spell out a guarantee that you'll use over and over... that... you can write without much effort. Then, when you pick up some steam-which, you'll do most of the time-you can switch to a part of your promo that's a little more challenging.

       However, sometimes, no matter what you do, you'll still be flat, tired and uninspired. On those occasions, it might be wise to take the day off. Just don't make too much of a habit of it. More often than not, you can rise to the occasion... if... you just get started!

Better Copy, Faster Strategy #6... Allow yourself to suck:

       Listen: It's okay to be less than perfect. Every word you put on the page does not have to be "solid gold". After all, you're not doing brain surgery! The "patient" won't die if you screw up.

       And remember, just because you write it (or type it) doesn't mean it has to be printed or published that way. You can always edit and rewrite later. And many times, you'll be surprised with your "less than perfect" writing... especially... if you let it sit a day or so before reading it again.

       Dozens, if not hundreds of times, I've written something that I didn't feel good about during and immediately after finishing... however... after setting it aside, then taking a fresh look at it, decided to go with it.

       So relax, and just write. If you still feel hampered by perfectionism, just remember, in the
history of written communication, almost nothing has ever been published that's 100% perfect. And besides, who makes the rules anyway? As a copywriter, as long as what you write, works, YOU get to make the rules.

Better Copy, Faster Strategy #7... Write your first drafts fast & furious with no editing:

       In his-I think-only non-fiction book, On Writing: A Memoir Of The Craft, Stephen King had this to say about first drafts:

       "Never look at a reference book while doing a first draft. You want to write a story? Fine. Put away your World Almanac, and your thesaurus. Better yet, throw your thesaurus into the wastebasket. The only things creepier than a thesaurus are those little paperbacks college students too lazy to read the assigned novels buy around exam time. Any word you have to hunt for in a thesaurus is the wrong word. There are no exceptions to this rule. You think you might have misspelled a word? O.K., so here is your choice: Either look it up in the dictionary, thereby making sure you have it right-and breaking your train of thought and the writer's trance in the bargain-or just spell it phonetically and correct it later. Why not? Did you think it was going to go somewhere? And if you need to know the largest city in Brazil and you find you don't have it in your head, why not write in Miami or Cleveland? You can check it… but later. When you sit down to write, write. Don't do anything else except go to the bathroom, and only do that if it absolutely cannot be put off."

       Good advice from a guy who certainly knows how to get a lot of writing done.

Better Copy, Faster Strategy #8... Don't be afraid to throw away writing if it's no good:

       This is a somewhat counterintuitive strategy for writing better, copy faster. But it works, because it keeps you moving.

       I often watched Gary write one or more pages (longhand on a legal pad), rip 'em out, wad 'em up and chuck 'em in the waste basket... and then... immediately start over.

       I do the same thing quite often. You see, it's a natural human tendency to "warm up" to things. And almost always, your first words are "warm up" words. If that's the case-and after awhile, you KNOW when what you've written is not up to par... or... just plain stinks-trash it, and start over.

       Sometimes, I even trash a whole day's writing when I KNOW it's not right! I don't cry or fret over it, I just start over and keep moving.

       By the way, that reminds me of something. At a seminar once, I was listening to Jeff Paul explain something he calls his...

"5-Minute Wallow Rule!"

       It goes something like this:

       When something happens to you that, at the time, seems like an unfortunate event-if you have to-give yourself five minutes to just wallow in your pain.

       You can feel sorry for yourself... scream... cry... complain bitterly or whatever you need to do. However, when the five minutes is up, you gotta quit wining and go immediately back to being proactive in your life.

       It's a good strategy for anyone... and... a GREAT strategy if you're a freelancer.

       For example: If your latest promo doesn't work as well as you hoped. Or, if yesterday's writing was a wash. Or, if your client doesn't mail your letter for some insane reason. Or, whatever.

       If you need it, take five minutes to wallow... then... get on with things.

Better Copy, Faster Strategy #9... Use technology when it's actually useful:

       I'm not a technology junkie. Far from it. In fact, I often still write longhand on legal pads when I'm not in a time-crunch... making me, by today's standards, a hardcore Luddite (look it up).

       However, I can be persuaded to use technology that is actually useful.

       For example:

       Here's a web site I found recently that provides a service that ensures-in as much as anything dependent on technology can ensure-you'll never lose an important thought again. It's located at jott.com. (In beta it was totally free, however, I just checked, and now you might have to pay for some of the features.)

       The way it works is... you sign up and give them your phone number. Then, you program their toll-free 866 number into your phone. (I have it on my cell phone's speed dial.) After that, any time you have a thought, you call their number and it asks you, "Who do you want to Jott?" You say, "me" or "myself". Then it beeps and you can leave a message. The message length is 15 to 60 seconds, depending upon what type of account you have. However, you can leave as many messages as you want... one after another.

       Now here's where it gets cool. After you leave your message, they transcribe it (with fairly decent accuracy) and send it to you by e-mail... or... you can log-in to the web site and print off all your "Jotts".

       Of course, there are other features, but for me, the "thought capture" feature is the main thing I'm interested in. It cuts down on written notes... and... keeps things, especially if they're online-related, in front of me. I sometimes dictate copy and cut & paste it into whatever I'm working on.

       I turned online marketing mavin, Rich Schefren, onto this service while at SXSW in Austin and he seems to dig it.

       In Napoleon Hill's, The Law Of Success In Sixteen Lessons (which was written in the early 1900's), he wrote about a very successful businessman who would carry around postcards... and... when something popped into his mind-an idea, to do item, et cetera-he'd write it on a postcard and mail it to himself.

       The purpose of doing so was to free his mind to work on more important or current matters... without... the fear of forgetting something.

       Same concept, jott.com just makes it easier.

       Another service I've been using for the last year or so is located at: freeconferencecall.com. The name pretty much says it all. You can set-up conference calls or brainstorming sessions at no cost.

       The free service works great and I've used it quite a bit.

       But what I like more is their paid service that let's you do the same thing with a toll-free 800#... and also... records the call. After that, they send you an mp3 recording by e-mail within a couple of hours. And, if you want, they'll send it out for transcription. They offer 72-hour turnaround... or... for an extra fee, they offer expedited 24-hour turnaround.

       This is a fantastic service that can be used from practically anywhere. I use it for interviewing clients. It saves me the hassle of trying to record the conversation myself... or... trying to take extensive notes while talking. And, I can listen to the recording as many times as I like... often finding hidden gems that I missed during our live conversation.

Better Copy, Faster Strategy #10... Get in shape:

       To write better copy, faster, you must have the energy to write better copy, faster. And you're just not going to have that energy unless you exercise and eat fairly well.

       I'm not preaching here, I've been in and out of shape more times in my life than I care to count. But I do know, the quality and quantity of my writing suffers when I'm not in shape. Also, since my background includes stints as a National Champion Powerlifter, Competitive Martial Artist and Professional Bike Racer, I'm hesitant to tell you what I do for exercise and nutrition... because... it's most likely not right for you.

       However, let me just say this: If you're doing absolutely nothing right now, if you'll just start walking-at a fairly brisk pace-30 minutes a day, three to six days a week, you'll improve your health and energy greatly.

       If that's too much, or you don't feel motivated enough to do that, start small... even as little as 5 minutes a day in the beginning. Then, gradually work your way up to 30 minutes a day.

Better Copy, Faster Strategy #11... Specialize:

       If you want to write better copy, faster (and make a lot more money), it's good idea to specialize as a copywriter.

       Now, there are many ways you can do this. You can specialize by industry: Health, financial, etc. By occupation: Dentists, chiropractors, etc. By medium: Direct mail, space, online, etc. Or some combination of the above. Or, in a variety of other ways.

       Just as an example: You could be the guy who does nothing but write newspaper tear-sheet ads for chiropractors. Or, you could be the lead-generation, direct mail guru for dentists. Or, you could be-like one guy I know of-someone who does nothing but write copy for newsletter subscriptions/renewals.

       If I were starting over today, I would specialize somehow. It's far easier (translation: less stressful) and, when done right, far more lucrative. Why? A lot of reasons:

 	

a.

	

The work/writing will get much easier over time as you learn exactly what works or what a specific market wants.


 	b.	

You’ll be able to recycle concepts and copy.  In other words, you won’t have to reinvent the wheel every time… a big time-saver/money-maker.  


 	c.	You’ll be able to keep up with trends and shifts within your specialty.
 	d.	You can focus on positioning yourself with laser-like intensity.  That is, you can be a big fish in a small pond that everyone knows and wants to go to. 
 	e.	

You can keep tabs on the competition much easier.

 

Better Copy, Faster Strategy #12... Reward yourself:

       This is something I learned from Gary. Every time he finished a promotion, he would reward himself somehow. Didn't have to be something big... in fact... most of the time, it would be something as small as buying himself a little gadget from Sharper Image or something similar.

       Over the years, I've worked out a reward system for myself. I even break it down.

       Like when I lived in Los Angeles, I would set a goal to get "X" amount of work done by Thursday afternoon around 2 p.m. Then, if I hit my goal, I would reward myself by hitting "Happy Hour" at Barney's Beanery (a great place to hangout, have a few drinks and chit-chat with an eclectic group of Hollywood rabble.)

       That was a small reward, but it worked for me. And I'm not suggesting you "pollute your body" every time you hit a goal. But I am suggesting you figure out something that keeps you moving and gives you joy for hitting your marks.

Now onto Part 2 of this report...

"How To Write Copy Like Gary Halbert!"

       How do you like the headline above? But can it possibly be true? Can what I'm about to reveal really enable you to write copy like Gary Halbert?

       Actually, I can't say for sure. However, I do know it can certainly help you write copy more like Gary Halbert.

       How do I know that?

       Because it's one of the things he did to help make his writing truly great. You could say, it was his "ace-in-the-hole" or "secret weapon" when it came to writing some of the best advertising copy the world has ever seen. And it's this...

Reading Good Novels

       You know, when you ask most experts what books you should read to learn how to write copy, the typical reply is something like: Scientific Advertising by Claude Hopkins. Tested Advertising Methods by John Caples. The Robert Collier Letter Book. Ogilivy on Advertising. Et cetera. And they're right. In fact, in my course (Shortcut Copywriting Secrets™) I list all the classic books everyone who wants to be an effective copywriter should read (and re-read).

       However, once a person has a deep and thorough understanding of these books... and... has taken advantage of a few of the better, current courses available, where should he (or she) go from there?

       Once again, to good novels. Let me explain-with a quick, real-life story-how reading novels helps you become a better copywriter.

       When Gary invited me to come down to Miami Beach in 1998, I already had a solid grounding in the basics. I had read and re-read all the classics. Read as much of Gary's stuff as I could get my hands on... including his book: How To Make Maximum Money In Minimum Time! In fact, I even went so far as to copy out that entire book in my own handwriting.

       So, I was beyond the absolute beginner level. However, I wasn't exactly a pro, either. Now, you'd think, since I still had plenty to learn, Gary would push his materials on me and tell me to study them intently. But he didn't. No, one of the most important things he did was buy me a novel.

       Here's what happened:

       Shortly after I arrived in Florida, we took a trip down to the Florida Keys. Marathon to be exact. And while in Marathon, we stopped at a bookstore. I picked up a health book to help me with a current project and Gary picked up a few paperbacks. After we got back in the car, Gary handed me one of the paperbacks and said...

"You'll always remember where you were when
Gary Halbert bought you your first Travis McGee novel."

       And, as a matter of fact-quite obviously-I still do. In fact, on a recent vacation to the Keys (April '08), I passed by that bookstore and the memory of him giving me that book was as vivid as the day he did it.

       Anyway, at that time, Gary didn't say, "Read this, it'll make you a better copywriter." No, he just told me that once I start reading Travis McGee, I'll become addicted. And I did. Not a rabid addiction, but I've slowly worked my way through the entire series (21 books in all) over the last 10 years.

       And now that I've finished all the books in the Travis McGee series, I consider that gift one of the most important things I ever received from Gary. Why? It's simple...

Reading Those Books Made Me
A Better Storyteller!

       And good storytelling ("in print" or "in person") is paramount to persuasion and selling.

       Want proof?

       You don't have to look any farther than Gary himself. His newsletters-widely regarded as the best marketing newsletters ever published-are almost impossible not to read. He was a master storyteller. And he honed his storytelling skills, at least in my estimation, by reading fiction.

       He was an inveterate fiction reader. And what most people don't realize is, he hardly ever read a book on marketing, advertising or selling. At least in his latter years. Sure, he'd thumb through something someone sent him. Or, he might buy a few things here and there that really caught his eye. But for the most part, during our scores of trips to bookstores all over the country, he bought, and then read, novels. Mostly of the mystery genre.

       In fact, one of our last trips to a bookstore-a Barnes & Noble on Biscayne Boulevard in Miami-was a quest for a semi-obscure Ian Fleming (James Bond series author) piece of writing titled...


"Quantum of Solace"

       Gary insisted we find it, and insisted I read it... because... in his opinion, it was one of the best pieces of writing he had ever read. And it was/is. (If you're interested, you can find "Quantum of Solace" tucked inside Fleming's novel, For Your Eyes Only.)

       So, if you want to become a better copywriter-and you've covered the basics-start reading books written by good storytellers. Try the Travis McGee series written by John D. MacDonald. You know, Gary used lines in his copy that had a remarkable resemblance to lines in the McGee books. He used them in person. He used them as part of his philosophy.

       So there's much you can learn from fiction.

       And while I'm on the subject, in addition to reading good novels, you should also...

Become An Observer Of Life And
People... And... A Collector Of Stories.

       Gary was a master observer of life and people... and I... pretty much by osmosis, learned this from him. You see, many people go about their day half-asleep, paying little attention to the things that happen around them and to them. Big mistake. Your life can (and should be) source material for your copy. Let me give you a concrete example. It's an excerpt from a letter I wrote recently for a famous online marketer:

START OF EXCERPT

       I'll tell you how to get it in a minute. But first, a quick story...

       Recently, a friend of mine drove down here to _______ _______ to hang out, work a little... and... in general, just shuck and jive. In fact, this was a vacation/sabbatical for him in which, he drove, according to his rental car receipt...

4,706 Miles

       In any case, when he returned home, he called and told me something interesting. He said (and I'm paraphrasing a little bit here)...

       "You know _____, I'm amazed at what a dumba#@ I can be at times. The whole drive, down to your office and back I could never get comfortable. And the reason why is, my new rental car had air vents that wouldn't adjust properly. When opened, I could only get them to blow air directly in my face... leading to a quite quick "too cold" condition. That, or I could close them completely... leading to a quite quick "too hot" condition.

       "Whatever. I just cursed the car company and went on. Well, turns out, when I got back home (all the way back), while reaching to close a vent-for what seemed like the thousandth time-I hit a bump... and wouldn't you know it, the damn thing turned.

       "Matter of fact, I discovered the vents rotated 360 degrees, giving precise angles for blowing the air wherever. Anyway, what makes me such a dumba#@ is... I never tried to spin 'em... I just tried to push them in and out like the old vents. Never even crossed my mind to try something else. I tell ya, I wonder about myself and my future sometimes."

       Funny story. At least it was the way he told it. However, it's much more than that. You see, after I got off the phone with him, for whatever reason, I was thinking about our conversation... and...


Something Hit Me!

       My friend suffered through thousands of long miles on the road... because of one little piece of missing information.

       Just someone showing or telling him to rotate the vents would've made a tremendous difference in the quality of his trip. In fact, later, when I talked with him again, I asked him how much he would've paid if someone would've offered to "fix" the vents. And he said,

"Five-hundred bucks, no problem."

END OF EXCERPT

Now, that's a true story. It's actually a story within a story... but whatever. The part about me driving almost 5,000 miles, uncomfortable, 'cause I couldn't figure out how to adjust the vents is absolutely true. And I absolutely felt like a dumbass.

       But that's not the point.

       The point is: That was just a random thing that occurred to me during my trip. However, I modified and used it to write a story that will help sell more of his product... much more than a plain-Jane, "Here's my promise, here's my product, here's how it fulfills on my promise, I'll shoulder the risk, give me your money" pitch.

       By the way, want a top-level secret? There's some subtle psychology in that excerpt there. Can you guess what it is? I'll wait....................................................................................................

       Got it? No?

       Then it's this: You see the last subhead where I talk about how I'd have paid 500 smackers if someone would've showed me how to rotate the vents? Not only is that absolutely true. I would have, and would have gladly. But also, I'm using that as an early price justification. You see, his product is under one-hundred bucks. And what it does for you-in terms of helping you uncover missing information-is much, much more valuable than someone giving you missing information on how to operate your air-conditioner vents.

       It's a little out of context here, but if you were to read the whole pitch, you would see how powerful that piece of subtle psychology is. It's a way to justify price without direct comparison... to say it... without... saying it.

       However, I'm not here to go into things like that. I just thought you might enjoy seeing something on a little more advanced level of thinking. (As a side note: Gary was also a master of subtle psychology... and... it's something I learned by working side-by-side with him and having hundreds of conversations with him about such things.)

       Anyway, to recap, don't just stumble through your life. Observe and collect stories... then... use those stories in your copy. And I recommend true stories, as well. It's more ethical and they have more verisimilitude... which simply means, they not only are true... but also... they actually seem true.

       So enough.


       I'm going to wrap up this report here. I hope you have enjoyed it... and... I hope you use the strategies here to improve your own copy efforts.

       One last thing: If you don't already own my complete copywriting course, Shortcut Copywriting Secrets™, now would be a good time to pick it up.

       Why?

       For one, it contains literally hundreds of tips, strategies, secrets and shortcuts for quickly supercharging your copywriting abilities.

       And secondly, with the help of Bond and Kevin, I'm going to throw in a killer bonus when you order my course from this page. I mentioned it above. It's Gary's long out-of-print, bestselling book:

How To Make Maximum Money
In Minimum Time!
16 Of The Fastest Cash-Producing
Secrets Known To Man!

       This book changed the course of my life! And it's yours free. But you gotta hurry. I have less than 50 original copies to be given out on a first-come, first served basis.

       So, if you want one of the remaining copies along with my course, get on over to...

shortcutcopycourse.htm

       ... and order now!

Sincerely,                                        

                     

Scott L. Haines                               

 

P.S. By the way, my copywriting course was the first information product ever to receive the "Gary Halbert Seal of Approval." A title I'm most definitely proud of and honored by.

P.P.S. Used copies of Gary's Max Money book have gone for as much as $70. Again, if you hurry, you can lay your hands on an original (unused) copy for free-along with my world-famous course-by clicking on and ordering from the link below...

http://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2008/scott/shortcutcopycourse.htm

Copyright © 2008 Scott L. Haines. All Rights Reserved.


 	 
 	 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Mail Up To 100,000 Letters Per Week At No Cost Whatsoever! (Not Even Postage)

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/a_mail_100,00_letters.htm

From:
W-a-y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend and Subscriber

      What you are about to read is a remarkably simple idea that can be worth thousands and thousands of dollars to you. It is a tested idea. Others are using it every day and now... it's your turn!

      Listen: One of the very best ways to advertise your business is direct mail. When you use direct mail, it enables you to fire your advertising bullets with a rifle instead of a shotgun. In other words, it lets you "target" your market.

      However, there is a drawback. You see, direct mail is very expensive. Right now, for example, the postage cost of mailing a 1-ounce, first-class letter is 22 cents. And soon, it's going to be 25 cents and more. And, when you use direct mail, there are many other expenses besides postage. For example, you've got to pay for printing, list rental, envelopes, folding, stuffing and sealing and so on.

      What this all boils down to is it's going to cost you about 40 cents (or more) for every piece of direct mail advertising you send out, even if you mail bulk rate.

      Now, let's suppose you have a real estate business here in Los Angeles and you want to mail a sales letter to everyone in your trading area. O.K., if your real estate business is located on Sunset Boulevard near my office, that means you will probably, just for openers, want to mail everyone who lives in the Zip code (90069) where your business is located.

      Also, if your first mailing is successful, you'll probably want to expand your mailings to include everybody who lives in the Zip code areas adjacent to 90069.

      Anyway, to get started, let's say you contact Mailing Lists of Southern California and you discover there are 57,128 people living in Zip codes 90069, 90068, 90046 and 90210.

      Let's see now, at 40 cents apiece, it's going to cost you $22,851.20 to make just one mailing to all these people!

      Hmn? There must be a better way, right? Well, there is. Your first step is to contact other, non-competing businesses in your trading area and you say to each one of them something like this...

 

"Look, Mr. Druggist. As you know, the cost of direct mail advertising is sky high so I've got an idea. Listen: What I'm trying to do is get 10 different businesses to get together and share in the costs and the benefits of a 'co-op' mailing."

"What's a 'co-op' mailing?" asks Mr. Druggist. "Well, you explain, "It's very simple. What happens is everybody gives me their advertising flyer and I'll mail them all in one envelope and the costs will be evenly divided among all the different businesses. That way, instead of it costing you $22,851.20 to mail everybody in your trading area, it's only going to cost you in the neighborhood of $2,200.00 which is a savings of over 90%!"

 

      Sounds good, doesn't it? Well, it is a good idea... but... you've got to be careful. The first thing you've got to do is make sure none of the participating businesses are in competition with each other. And, the second thing you've got to do is make sure your direct mail message stands out, head and shoulders above all the rest.

      Fortunately, that's easy.

      You see, many of those businesses will have their advertising prepared by a local ad agency and it will be terrible. The problem here is most people who work for ad agencies only know how to "be creative" and win awards and not how to create direct mail that sells. The rest of your "co-passengers" will probably create their advertising themselves... and... while that's better than hiring a moronic ad agency... they still won't have the special, inside knowledge and know-how you're going to enjoy as a subscriber to my newsletter.

      So, what this means is most of the people in your mailing co-op are going to be mailing coupons, announcements of a special sale, a brochure that explains what hours they are open and so forth.

      Not you. No Sir. See, at this point, a light bulb is going off in your head and you are remembering what you read in that other section about what to write on a simple postcard mailing that will make people flood into your business.

      Remember? Remember how I suggested you write something that gets people to call and listen to a free recorded message that will entice them to call you or come to your place of business? You do remember? Good! And, since you're in the real estate business, you have a bunch of cards printed up that say something like this:

 Free recorded message reveals an amazing secret
 that let's you buy L.A. real estate without
 paying high interest rates or a big down payment!
 Call (000) 000-0000 anytime, 24-hours a day.

      And, of course, what you do is you have all your little "free-riding" postcards put in all those envelopes with all the other dumb advertising and your message gets a "free ride" to everybody in your trading area.

      Another tip: Since everybody else will be using color, your message will stand out if it's in simple black and white.

      Now, of course, once you get this program really cranked up and you are making mailings perhaps once every month, you'll want to send different messages. But, don't worry. My newsletter is going to give you more good advertising ideas than you'll ever be able to use!

      Does all this sound like a lot of work to you? Well, actually, it's not. True, there is a little effort to get this set up the fir time... but... after that... all you have to do is telephone everybody every month and tell them what the deadline is to have their material delivered to the lettershop.

      And, if you are really a go-getter, why not get 50 local businesses involved with this idea and send out five different mailings every month. Therefore, since you'll be the organizer and don't have to pay like everybody else, your sales message can get a "free ride" in 50,000 or more mailings every month.

      Or more!

      Listen: I personally know of several people who have organized co-op mailings that go out in the millions every month.

      So, if you've really got the ambition, working up to 100,000 letters a week should be a snap. So try it. And remember...

Nothing Will Work
If You Won't!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

                               

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Big Announcement

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2009/BigAnnouncement/BigAnnouncement.html

STAY TUNED FOR A BIG ANNOUNCEMENT!

 

     Kevin and I have done some serious thinking and we have finally made some major decisions regarding the future of The Gary Halbert Letter!
 
     Don’t worry it is all good. We are not shutting down or cutting anyone off of the great info our father gave and continues to give to the world through the letters he posted on his website.

     But, we know many of you are hoping for help in regards to learning the business, buying Gary Halbert Material, stories about Gary, basically you all want what we do…

MORE GARY HALBERT!

     We don’t like to make promises and then fulfill them as much as we prefer to surprise everyone with things already available so this is about as big of a a build up as you are going to get.

The Halbert Brothers are
About To Launch Something Huge!

 

     Some of the things we will be doing are time sensitive so if you don’t sign up for the email announcements list you WILL miss out. We give people on the e-mail announcement list priority and here is a hint: we WILL be following the principle of first come first serve so…

KEEP CHECKING YOUR IN BOX!!!!!!!

     Onward….

     If you were already on the newsletter announcement list you know we are on a campaign to thank the fans of The Gary Halbert Letter.

     We started by slipping in a video near the end of one of the last Boron 2.0 letter. The video shows you how to find the best websites to put your links in, so you can dramatically increase your website rankings on Google and other search engines.

     This was to thank people who read the Boron 2.0 letters.

     Then, last week, we sent everyone on the e-mail list a copy of our father’s favorite marketing book of all time. The book he considered to be…

The Bible
of Direct Marketing!

     The book is “Scientific Advertising” by Claude Hopkins.

     I am not going to bother to tell you how cool the book is because you missed the boat and that would be cruel.

            We also gave everyone on the email announcement list a copy of a…

A Very Rare Yellow Page Ad
Written By Gary Himself!

            This is going to continue. So, if you don’t want to miss out on the next book or ad we give to everyone on the email list, make sure you sign up now and that when we send you an email, you READ it.

            For purposes of not looking like spam we may not be able to announce a gift inside in the regards section of the email which tells you what the email is about.

            I’m sure if you join soon Kevin may see his way clear to letting you have a copy of the yellow page ad written by Gary Halbert and the book Scientific Advertising but you will not find them on the site. It is a gift only for people who signed up for the free email announcement list.

     However,…

We Saved
The Best Gift For
EVERYONE
Who Visits The Gary Halbert Letter!

 

     We don’t’ care if you were prompted to come here because of an e-mail alert, if you were surfing the net or even if you got here by mistake. We are still glad to have you.

     To show our appreciation we are going to post for everyone a recording of…

Tape #1 Side A from
Gary Halbert’s 1987
Brainstorming Session!

     This is not only VINTAGE Gary but it was scarcely a year after he started his newsletter when he was out to prove he was The Master Copywriter so he cared very much about being right and not holding back.

     It is one of 12 tapes from the whole event.

CLICK HERE TO GO TO THE RECORDING NOW!

     We hope you enjoy it.

     Peace,
     Bond and Kevin
     The Halbert Brothers

 




Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright ï¿½ 2009 Nomax Publishing Inc.  All Rights Reserved.

## Happy Birthday Pop by Bond Halbert

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2011/GaryHalbertsBirthday2011.htm

Dear Friend & Subscriber,
 
June 12th should be called International Copywriters' Day
because it is Gary Halbert's birthday.

As with most great copywriters, my father loved stories. He
had an incredible appetite for books and movies which helped
make it easy for him to find the interesting story behind
products and services.

He would take in 4 or 5 movies a week and while growing up,
Kevin and I were always tagging along.

Pop would just grab the paper and scan it for a movie he had
not already seen.

The movies were always playing in Westwood or up on
Hollywood Blvd. and we would immediately head out to
wherever the movie was playing next.

If there was time to kill, we would head to a bookstore
where he could spend hours on end if need be.

To encourage reading, he bought us any book we wanted as
long as we read it and I do the same for my kids.

If there was no time to hit up the bookstore, we would go
right afterward.

So as you can imagine, my simple ritual is to take in a
movie and go to the bookstore on his birthday which reminds
me of how he taught us to enjoy life.

This year, his birthday falls on a Sunday and like me and
my dad, you may not like crowded movie theaters, so here are
a few other ways to properly celebrate the birth of The
Prince of Print.

   1. Write about him. He loved to write and he wrote a ton
      about himself so writing about Gary and spreading the
      word of his newsletter is always a great way to pay
      tribute. We'd love to read any stories about how he
      affected your life.

   2. Help somebody. My father always helped a lot of people
      around him and some of his proudest moments were when
      he raised money for charity. His favorite charities
      were children's hospitals and family abuse shelters.
      You could also simply help a stranger in some form or
      fashion and just let them know you are paying back
      Gary Halbert.

   3. Forgive someone. He loved the phrase, "everyone is
      just doing the best they can" and he is right. He
      certainly wouldn't forgive anyone for anything,  but
      he forgave a lot of trespasses and if you are
      harboring resentment for someone's bad behavior you
      know wasn't mean spirited but just a case of being
      very lame, see if you can let it go.

   4. Share some raw honesty. One of Sir Gary's greatest
      gifts to the world was his brutal honesty which cut
      through all the BS and told people what they needed
      to know. Share with someone a simple trick which
      really helped make your life or business better.

   5. Write a letter to your kids. No father ever gave their
      son a greater gift than The Boron Letters. When you
      write letters to your kids explaining things to them
      they won't learn in school, you end up sharing
      yourself in a very profound way your kids will learn
      to cherish more and more as they get older. They will
      truly come to understand that you love them and see
      that you have put time, energy and thought into them,
      even when they were not around. Trust me on this.

So, if you are not near a good movie house and bookshop, any
of the above suggestions is a perfectly fine way to
celebrate the birth of the baby genius Gary C. Halbert.

With much affection,

Sir Bond of Halbert

 


Copyright (c) 2011 NoMax Publishing. All Rights Reserved.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

## Monster Website Profits

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/monsterwebsiteprofits.htm

From:
Way South of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Last Saturday the 23rd of August, my assistant Teresa got her daughter married off to a nice young man named Eric in Ocala.

Whatï¿½s even more remarkable is Teresaï¿½s father came with her to Ocala from his home in North Carolina to walk down the aisle with Roxanne and give away to her new husband.

The wedding photographer didnï¿½t have his camera loaded with film and managed to miss the most important shot of the wedding. They couldnï¿½t do it over because Teresaï¿½s father didnï¿½t have anything left to pose for another picture.

I am hoping against hope one of my readers is adept at Photo Shop and can take a photo of Teresaï¿½s father and schmuck it into one or more of Roxanneï¿½s wedding photos so it doesnï¿½t look contrived.

On the way back to North Carolina, Teresa had to stop the car approximately every 45 minutes so her father could get out and move around a bit to ease the pain. Heï¿½s such a nice guy he apologized incessantly for the inconvenience he was causing. Here is what Teresa said to him:

"Dad, I donï¿½t care if it takes us three extra days to get to North Carolina. You did what I dreamed of: you came down and gave my baby away!"

Many people who are dying manage to hold on long enough to experience a big family event. Like the birth of a baby, a childï¿½s graduation or, in this case, his granddaughterï¿½s wedding.

But now, he is spending two full days with two different doctors. I know what they are going to tell him and so does he and Teresa. You know what I think normal treatment for cancer is in America?

They Hook The Patient Up To An IV Tube That Is Connected To All Of That Personï¿½s Assets.

Then, when the last penny has been sucked through the tube into the doctorï¿½s coffers, they unplug all the patientï¿½s umbilicals that keep him alive and let him die.

Donï¿½t pay any attention to me. What do I know?

Anyway, Iï¿½ve been promising you a ï¿½killerï¿½ newsletter on how to make websites profitable. I have finished writing that newsletter and, you should be reading it right now.

But, this isnï¿½t it, because, I just located someone to type it for me and post it on my site. (Obviously, Teresa canï¿½t do it just now.). It will be posted in just a few days and, I guarantee it will blow you away.

Anyway, letï¿½s consider this a mini-newsletter and, I want to make you an offer you canï¿½t refuse. I want to send you a report called:

The Three Biggest Secrets Of Making Huge Website Profits!

I will send this report to you IMMEDIATELY if you will do me a small favor. I want you to send an email to five of your friends that says something like this:

"Buckwheat, I have just stumbled across what has got to be the most valuable website on the Internet! Itï¿½s free. There are no banner ads and no pop up ads.

If you donï¿½t at least triple your income by reading this website, you are beyond all hope. Check it out right now. Itï¿½s at:

WWW.THEGARYHALBERTLETTER.COM

Trust me on this. Itï¿½s NOT a joke. Itï¿½s the most serious email Iï¿½ve ever sent you.

Your friend, John Q. Everett"

Here are the rules: your message does NOT have to say exactly what I wrote. Just write something in your own words that conveys approximately the same message.

And you CANï¿½T ï¿½broadcastï¿½ this email to all five different people at the same time. You have to send each email individually.

Plus, you have to cc me (at kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com) on every email you send out.

Donï¿½t worry. I will never send an email to any of your friends unless they sign up for my announcement list. Nor will I ever give, lend, or sell these email addresses to anyone else. In fact, if any of them hasnï¿½t signed up to be on my announcement list in 30 days, I will use my shredder to DESTROY those email addresses.

And, I will send you IMMEDIATELY the report entitled:

The Three Biggest Secrets To Making Huge Website Profits!

Hell, youï¿½ll probably get rich by reading this one report which, as I said, you will receive immediately.

Deal?

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert


Or, as I am known in Costa Rica
Guapo Gary


P.S.	

Keep alert for the notice of the ï¿½killerï¿½ newsletter (soon to be posted on my website) on how to make MONSTER website profits. It is being typed right now as you read this but,

IT IS MORE THAN 60 HANDWRITTEN PAGES

And, donï¿½t forget to copy me at kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com on all those emails you send out.

And donï¿½t even try to figure out what I am doing here. Youï¿½d never guess in a million years.

Peace.



Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright ï¿½ 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Mindset

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2008/Mindset/Mindset.htm

This issue is for entertainment purposes only. The tactics mentioned in this newsletter are no longer valid.

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

      Nothing is impossible for someone who doesn't know it can't be done.

     A case in point: Once upon a time, there was a very rich man who was getting somewhat long in the tooth. He'd had a long, wonderful life… and… now… he wanted to leave his considerable fortune to his three daughters. They had married well. The rich, old guy had great affection and respect for all three of the gentlemen his daughters had chosen to marry.

     So he boogies on down to the offices of the law firm which handles all the legal details of his business affairs. He tells his attorneys what he wants to do… and… that's when he began to learn the harsh realities of the probate, estate and inheritance laws here in this great land of America. These laws (like many others in the U.S.A.) are flat out insane. But, in truth, the probate laws in our wonderful country… are truly special. They are (naturally) ridiculously complex. But, when you boil them down to their essence, it all amounts to this: Whenever the guy upstairs decides it's time for you to check in the "Check-Out City," the process of transferring your money, property and all other forms of your wealth to your loved ones (or, even to your favorite charities) will involve:

            (A.) A very long and totally ridiculous legal process.

            (B.) Giving a ridiculously high percentage of your wealth to one or more unworthy, scum bag
                   attorneys and…

            (C.) Giving the U.S. Government another ridiculous, unfair and huge chunk of your net worth.

      After his attorneys explained all this to him, the rich, old guy was not a happy camper. Being a God-fearing man, he decided to express his feelings in a Biblical manner. Then, he looked up at this team of high-priced attorneys and spoke thusly…

This Sucketh !


      He then asked if all the laws pertaining to probate could be found in the legal books his attorneys
had in their private law library. They answered him in the affirmative. Then he asked if he could be left alone in the law library for a few hours every day during the coming week. His attorneys (behind his back, of course) rolled their eyes heavenward… but nevertheless… they granted his simple request.

      Hey, what could it hurt? The old man had been a good client for many years. Why shouldn't they humor him?

      And thus, it came to pass, the old man closeted himself in the firm's law library for the better part of a week. After that, he courteously thanked his attorneys and informed them they need not concern themselves with this area of his affairs any longer. The attorneys (sensing a loss of income) tried to dissuade him. But, alas, they could not.

      The old man returned home and went about his business. He decided to throw a huge party to announce his retirement. He invited hundreds of people (including his attorneys) to this gala event. There was wine, food, music, other forms of entertainment, good conversation and, in general, a fine time was had by all who attended. When the party was at its peak, the rich old guy asked the musicians to take a break so he could mount the stage, pick up the microphone and make a few comments. He thanked everybody for coming. He briefly described (with humility) the highlights of the rich, good life with which God had blessed him. He had a wonderful wife, three wonderful daughters, wonderful friends, a wonderful business, and, he had enjoyed excellent health. No man, he said, had been more blessed. The only smudge on his otherwise wonderful life was that…

The Three Men His Daughters
Had Chosen To Marry Were
Crooks, Thieves, And All-Around
Unethical, Dishonest Scum!

      He went on and on about this. The partygoers were astonished. They all thought the old man had respected and even loved the three men his daughters had married. How could he be saying these awful things? In public? At an event where everyone was being video taped?

      From time to time, individuals in the crowd would sneak a peek at the three young men who were being so unfairly depicted. They seemed remarkably composed, as did their wives, (the old man's daughters) during this tirade.

      Anyway, shortly after the old man had had his say, the party seemed to lose its festive atmosphere. All the guests went home… and… no one was surprised when, a few days later, a front page story in the local newspaper… about… how those three, maligned young men were suing the rich old guy for everything he had.

      No one was surprised when they won their lawsuit either. After all, they had hundreds of witnesses… and… even a high quality video tape of all the old guy's libelous and public statements.

      And so, it came to pass that all the old men's wealth was lost in this vicious lawsuit. His three sons-in-laws GOT IT ALL! which, of course, they shared with their wives, whom they loved very dearly. And, believe it or not, they even found a way in their hearts to "forgive" the old man… and… they gave him a generous (very generous) allowance so he could exquisitely enjoy the golden twilight years of his life. And, guess what, his daughters, their husbands and, his grandchildren had all this money and…

Nobody Had To Pay A
Penny In Inheritance Taxes!
Or income taxes!

Or state taxes!

Or capital gains taxes!

Or property taxes!

Or… any other type of taxes whatsoever!

      Why? Simply because, all the money that is won in a lawsuit for damages is always 100% tax-free!

      Bet your attorney never told you that, did he? I wonder why? No, it's probably not because he doesn't want you to know. More likely… it's simply that he's so "brain dead," he has no clue about the significance of this fact.

      But that rich, old man… who didn't know… it was impossible to avoid these unfair probate laws… went ahead and avoided them anyway. Please… let me say it again…

Nothing Is Impossible For A
Person Who Doesn't Know It
Can't Be Done!

      Look, the biggest limitation all of us have is our "mind-set!" Here's an example of how (if you can make a simple "mind-set" change) you can make an ENORMOUS amount of money really, really fast. Let's say you have a direct mail letter that's working. But, not very well, though. Just "limping" along. Or, let's say you have a client who has a direct marketing mail sales letter (or, any other type of direct marketing campaign) that is working… but… only "so so."

      Here's what your do. You go out and get yourself a movie or TV star you can feature in that direct mail letter. In fact, make that star the writer of the letter. Make the letter come from the star. If you do this, the number of orders you (or your client) will get per 1,000 sales letters mailed…

Will Increase Enormously!

But wait! Doesn't the celebrity have to have some connection with what your are selling? Of course not, you dummy. Do you think all those millions of women I got to buy Tova Borgnine's face cream did so because…

They Wanted To Look Like Ernest Borgnine?

Get real.

      However, being able to feature Ernie in their ad was important. Tremendously important. You see, what a star like Ernest Borgnine does for a campaign is… he credentializes it. If you say it's true, why should anyone believe you. Let's face it: Outside your family and friends nobody know YOU from Adam. However, if Ernest Borgnine says it's true… then… for millions of people… it's someone they know saying it's true.

[Note from Bond: One actor and wife he once worked with] are "nightmare people" to work with. I remember one day… when… in a violent rage, [well known actor] ripped 17 phones out of the walls of his home. On that occasion, [an associate] and I had to bribe some poor young woman (lets call her Miss No Self-Esteem) to take the blame and tell the phone company she did it.

      Well, that night, Mama Jo calls me and we get to chatting and, she (my very own mother) tells me what a nice guy [well known actor] is, and how lucky I am to be working with him. She's never really met him, of course… but… she had seen him on TV and in the movies… therefore… she felt she knew him well.

      Why spoil her fantasy? "Yes mom, he sure is a nice guy: It's a privilege to know him."
(NOTE? Actually, I do like [well known actor]. He might be a little on the hot-tempered side… but… you'll never have to wonder where he's coming from.)

      Forgive me, I digress. Let's get down to brass tacks. Let's say you've got a diet product and, a blind country music singer you can use as your celebrity. How would you handle that? Well, here's how one copywriter (the world's best) recently did it:

Dear Friend:

     If you need to lose weight, this will be the most exciting message you will ever read.

     Here is why. My name is Ronnie Milsap and I have been in show business (country music) for more than 30 years. Perhaps you've heard some of my records such as "Lost In The 50's Tonight." "Any Day Now." "Stranger Things Have Happened" or, any of the other 127 songs I have recorded on 31 different albums.

     However, the reason I'm writing to you is not about country music or show business. In fact. the only reason I even mention my career is because… I have learned… everybody in show business is concerned with their looks, their health, and especially their weight. And, it seems to me, so is almost everyone else in America. That's why I am very happy to tell you about an exciting new diet discovery that works like crazy for everybody who know about it.

Here's the story: yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta.

Yahta, Yahta, Yahta,
Yahta, Yahta, Yahta,
Yahta, Yahta!

Yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,

yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta.

Yahta, Yahta, Yahta, Yahta!

Yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta.

Yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,

Yahta, Yahta, Yahta,Yahta,
Yahta, Yahta, Yahta, Yahta!

Yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta,
yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta.

     Look, it may not be fair… but… I've been told… in America… people are judged more by how they look than anything else.

     That is not the way I judge people. I don't care at all how people look. You see, I was born blind and therefore, I have a different way of judging people. What I care about is how people are on the inside, about how they make me feel when I hear their voice or touch their skin.

     Maybe I can't see a person's face or body… but… I bet I can see their "soul" just as good as anyone else. Actually, because I'm blind, sometimes I think maybe I can see someone's real soul even better than a sighted person.

     I guess that's not the way it is with most people, since obviously, most people are not born blind. However, being blind has something in common with being overweight… and… that's why I want to help you if you have a weight problem. (By the way, you should know I'm not getting paid a penny to help spread the word about this amazing new weight-loss miracle.)

     Anyway, what does being blind have in common with being overweight? Well, when people find out you are blind, their first reactions is one of pity. They have a strange reluctance to get close to you. It's like maybe they are afraid blindness is "contagious." Often, sighted people think a blind person is somehow defective and they are uncomfortable around them.

     That's the way people used to feel around me. Not anymore. You see, I have been blessed with a God-given talent and, when people experience my music… they not only hear my voice… they can also finally "see" my soul.

     Overweight people have a similar problem. People can't see what's inside them. They only see the outside and, whether they say it or not, many people just don't want to be around someone who is overweight. Well, after this letter, people will be able to see you because…

You Are Going To Have
A New And Exciting Way
To Burn Off Body Fat…
Hour-By-Hour!

     It's easy to order. All you have to do is have your credit card ready and pick up your phone and dial…

1-800-000-0000

You know what you will hear when you dial that number? You'll get an answering machine that has my voice on it. Why? Because… there is one more GREAT THING about this Amazing High-Speed Weight-Loss Program… which… for personal reasons, I didn't want to put in this newspaper ad. It only takes me 1-1/2 minutes (90 seconds) to tell you this last great secret… and… after that, a friend of mine will pick up the phone, take your order and answer only questions you may have.

     So, call now. You'll be glad you did.

     Sincerely,

     

	

Ronnie Milsap

P.S. Yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta, yahta.

	

	








     


  
     
        

<--------Selling
              copy


              about




               weight


              loss
              product




<--------Selling




              copy


              about
              weight
               loss
              product.





















 

      BUT, WAIT A MINUTE! You couldn't get a star like Ronnie Milsap to be in one of your letters could you? Wow, he'd be way too expensive, right? Not true. In fact, in this case Ronnie is doing it for free. Why? Simply because he likes the product and the people who are selling it.

      But most celebs are not going to do it free. You will have to pay to get them. But, in many cases, not nearly as much as you might think. Remember, 98% of all movie and TV stars… can't pay their rent…from what they make from their acting careers. But…

It's Not The Money That's
Stopping You… It's Your
Screwed-Up Mind-Set!

      How could you… little plain nobody you ever hope to work with a… a… a… a movie star?
Impossible! Shit man, all you've got to offer them is some money. And you… you are nobody…
DON'T YOU EVERY FORGET THAT!

BULLSHIT!

      It's not your bank account that's important, it's your balls. Tell you what: If you believe you are unworthy of working with a celebrity… you are right!

      And, if you believe you are worthy of working with a celebrity… YOU ARE ALSO RIGHT!

      It's all in your head, Bubba… it's all in your head.

Sincerely,

	Sincerely,	
		
	Gary C. Halbert	

      PS:

      I know, I know. I've written about this business of using a celebrity to pump up your profits       before. However, way too few of my readers have actually done it. So, I'm hoping maybe the       approach I used in this letter will give you enough of a kick in the ass to get you going. If it does,       you still know how to contact and deal with a celebrity. Well, don't let that stop you… because…       as some of my readers already know, I have written a newsletter/special report that reveals       exactly, step-by-step how you can get a celebrity to help you make an enormous amount of extra       fungolas.

      If you don't already have a copy of this report, call my office at 1-800-000-0000 and we'll send it       to you free.

      Now, what's your excuse, you dingbat?

      Peace

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2008 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Modesty Personified

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2006/modesty_personified.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

 

      I believe I am the best copywriter who ever lived.

       Maybe, since you read my newsletter, you too already believe that.  Even if you don't, I think you will change your mind after you read this message.

Here is why.

      Much of the direct response advertising I have created is so good it is part of history.  My work has been printed in dozens (maybe hundreds) of books.  I believe people will still be reading and studying my work 200 years from now.  No other copywriter on earth has "winners" that are equal to mine.  For example, I once wrote two letters for which I was paid...

 $5,250,000!

       You read it right.  That's five million, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.  For just two letters.  Do you know of any other copywriter who can match that?  I don't think so.

       Would you like to know the details of those two letters and why they worked so well?  Would you like for me to explain the reason those two letters pulled in almost 700 million dollars?

       You would?  Ok, then, I'll tell you all about those two letters later in this message.  I just need you to be a little patient.  You see, in the meantime, I want to share with you, something that was written about me several years ago.  As you will see, it's an article written by Blade Thomas who, for a long time was the advertising director of Entrepreneur Magazine.  Here's the text of the article:   
 

The Amazing Marketing Miracles Created By Sir Gary of Halbert!

By BLADE THOMAS
President, CTV

      LOS ANGELES- I first met Gary Halbert (often referred to as the "Prince of Print") when  I was the advertising director of Entrepreneur Magazine and hired him as an outside consultant.

      Entrepreneur Magazine is very famous and one of the leading business publications in the world.  Working there enabled me to meet some of the smartest businessmen and marketing experts on earth but, Gary Halbert stood head and shoulders above them all.  When I first talked with him, his ideas seemed a bit unusual to say the least.  However, he was extremely persuasive and I decided to at least test some of his suggestions.  Thank God I did!  Within days, he taught us how to multiply our sales, cut our refunds to almost zero and how to enormously increase our bottom-line profits.  Some of his "radical" concepts are still being used by the magazine today and still paying off like crazy.

Adventures With The
Borgnines!
 


      I later had the occasion to work side-by-side with him when he was hired by Ernest Borgnine and his wife Tova who, at the time, had a struggling cosmetic company.  Ernie and Tova were, at first, highly skeptical about the changes Halbert insisted they make.  But, that skepticism evaporated when he took their company, Tova 9, from $20,000 to over $800,000 per month in just a little over half a year.  You may remember the first major ad he created for them.  It ran for years and had one of the most famous headlines ever written.  It was...



The Amazing Facelift In
A Jar Used By
Hollywood Stars Who
Don't Want
Plastic Surgery!


      That ad brought in millions of dollars in sales but it was another ad Halbert wrote for the Borgnines which contains, I believe, the most powerful headline in advertising history.  Back then, Mrs. Borgnine wanted to begin marketing a new perfume called "Tova" (it's still on the market) and she wanted to do the "launch" at a friend's boutique in Beverly Hills.  Her friend was Candy Spelling, wife of famed TV producer Arron Spelling, and the boutique, by my estimation, would probably only hold a total of 150 people.  When Gary heard about this he went ballistic.  He informed Tova, if she was going to let him do the perfume advertising his way, she'd need a much bigger space such as... the entire bottom floor of the Century Plaza Hotel!  She gasped a little but, when she recovered, she let Gary have his way and wrote an ad that got 7,000 people to come to the Century Plaza on a weekday for a sample of her perfume.  If you've got even one drop of salesmanship blood in your veins, you don't need to read the ad to realize how he did it.  All you've got to know is the headline which said...



Tova Borgnine Swears
Under Oath That Her
New Perfume Does Not
Contain An Illegal
Sexual Stimulant!



      By the way, the "subhead" of that ad was "Wife of famous movie star agrees to give away 10,000 samples of her new fragrance just to prove it's safe to wear in public."  Personally, I'll never forget that ad.  It was my job to coordinate everything and the damn hotel was so jammed with people nobody could hardly even move.  And, get this: The only reason we didn't have more than 7,000 people at the perfume launch is because... the fire marshalls wouldn't let anybody else into the hotel!



A $30,000,000
Success Story!


      During Gary's stint in Los Angeles (his previous office was located at 595 Madison Avenue in Manhattan) he also worked with a number of other celebrities.  One was Geoffrey Scott of Dynasty fame (he played Linda Evans' "Krystle" ex-husband) and the ad he wrote featuring him brought in over 30 million dollars for Gary's client.  Gary also put together more than a dozen successful "infomercials" starting with "Can You Look Younger?" which sold the cosmetic products of Vikki LaMotta who was once married to boxer Jake LaMotta and the oldest woman ever to pose nude for Playboy.  (By the way, I hear she still looks great!)

      Gary also worked on a number of shorter (usually 2-minute) TV commercials and probably the most memorable is the one which featured Nancy Kwan who was the star of "The World of Suzie Wong," "Noble House" and many other famous productions.  Personally, I was especially intrigued with the work he did with frequent-Playboy model and B-movie queen, Becky LeBeau and I understand he currently has Margaux Hemingway (granddaughter of Ernest Hemingway) under contract to help promote his forthcoming book tentatively titled...



HALBERTIZING: How
To Get Everything You
Ever Wanted Even If
You Don't Deserve It!



      Another of Gary's interesting clients was George Zangas, a world-famous power lifter, who mailed a postcard Gary wrote for him which generated $1,000 for every $100 he spent even though he mailed it to the same list five different times.  As far as direct mail is concerned, that's where Halbert really shines.  One of his "killer" successes was an 8-page sales letter that doubled Howard Ruff's subscription base of his RUFF TIMES newsletter.  He also did a letter for CASI (Computer Amusement Systems, Inc.) That shot their gross up from $3 million a year to over $13 million per year.  He has created direct mail promotions for Personal Finance Newsletter, The Doug Casey Letter, Tax Avoidance Digest and Predictions.  And, the work he did for Robert Allen (he wrote the famous best-seller Nothing Down) helped Allen develop a seminar business that, I hear through the grapevine, ended up grossing $75 million per year!

      By the way, Gary's marketing career started back in 1968 when he formed a company called "Halbert's Inc." (it still exists today) which sold coat-of-arms research reports and hand-painted family crests.  The letter Gary wrote to launch that project has become the most widely-mailed letter in history and the company has since grown into an international, multi-multi million dollar operation. (By the way, Gary is still kicking himself for selling his « interest in that deal!)  Anyway, that letter and its derivative letters are still being mailed at the rate of hundreds of thousands per week even though...

 

 More Than Half A
Billion (500,000,000)
Of Them Have Already
Been Mailed!



      After Gary sold his share of Halbert's Inc., he formed yet another company called "Good News Inc." with offices in North Canton, Ohio and Madison Avenue in New York.  Primarily, that company sold "how to" self-help books like How To Get What The U.S. Government Owes You, How To Rob A Bank Without A Gun and other equally-intriguing titles.  Sometimes the profits from selling these books was astronomical.  For example, one ad Gary wrote for a book titled How To Collect From Social Security At Any Age ended up running in magazines with a combined circulation of 55 million.  One of these was Parade, a newspaper-distributed magazine, which, at that time, had a circulation of 17,546,168.  Halbert's ad cost for Parade back then was $33,214.37 and his gross from that one ad in that one magazine was $228,492.00 and eventually his company made over $1,000,000.00 net profit from just this one publication!

      Hey, how'd you like him to create a winner like that for you?

      Unfortunately, as good as Gary is at creating marketing successes, he's just awful when it comes to managing companies and, when they start to get big, he starts getting itchy to go  get out.  So, when that happened with Good News Inc., he sold out and moved to Los Angeles.  As soon as he got there, he took some time out from marketing to write a couple of investment books.  One of them was about how to make profits with U.S. postage stamps and it was titled Thank God Not Everything Printed By The U.S. Government Loses Its Value.  The other, Foolproof Features, was about how to make money trading commodity futures.  Aside from that, he remained "retired" just long enough to become excruciatingly bored and that's when he decided to take on a few clients and I met him and... the rest is history.

      If, by reading this article, you've concluded I'm a big fan of Gary Halbert, you couldn't be more correct.  But, it's not only me.  Halbert, who now lives in the Florida Keys has thousands of letters in his Key West office from grateful people for whom his work has generated untold amounts of profits.

      Halbert now publishes a marketing newsletter that goes to all 50 states and 29 countries outside the U.S. and is undoubtedly the most intensely read marketing publication on earth.  He stopped taking on any new clients altogether about four years ago but now, he says, he's looking for a few new challenges.  Ian conclusion, all I can say is this: If you've got any kind of product  or service to sell and, if you can get Halbert interested in working with you, you are absolutely crazy if you don't get in touch with him.

      One thing is for sure: Now that Gary is once again taking on clients, you can be sure his calendar will fill up in a flash!  So, if you have any interest whatsoever in working with the man I and many other consider "The Best Marketing Man Alive," I strongly suggest you get in touch with him instantly.  His office number in Key West is      and you can call anytime Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. East Coast Time.

      Anyway, I'd like to conclude by saying having the chance to work with Gary Halbert is one of the best things that ever happened to me and, if you end up doing business with him, you're almost certainly going to get incredible results and a marketing education you'll never forget!


 

         That article was written several years ago.  Since then, I've written many more killer promotions plus I have the most highly read marketing website on the internet.  My recent Alexa rating was 1610!  More people read the Gary Halbert Letter than read Rush Linbaug and Bill Onelly combined.  And this is true in spite of the fact that both of these men promote their websites to tens of millions people almost every day.

       Anyway, I am now doing something I haven't done for a long time.  As of right now, I am actively soliciting for a few new clients.  But, before I get cranked up and into a full bone pitch, I want to just ramble on for a few minutes.  Look, I recently got the results of a sales campaign I had written for a very famous person in the marketing and real estate business. You would know his name instantly but, for personal reasons, I think it's best I keep his identity confidential.

       In any case, the spreadsheet (Lord, I hate those things!) he sent me illustrated the copywriting I did for him pulled in 6-1/2 times MORE MONEY than anything written by any other copywriter he has ever hired. By the way, he's a multi-millionaire so he does have the money to hire the "creme de la creme" of copywriters in the entire world.

      I want to tell you about the last time I actively solicited for clients. I was living in Key West and informed the readers of my newsletter that, if they were willing to pay my fee ($15,000 upfront and 5% of the back-end sales my efforts produced) I would pay all their expenses to fly to Key West and put them up in a hotel at my expense, while we discussed their project. I also told them if they did this, they didn't have to guarantee they would become a client of mine... but... they at least had to be a "for real" prospect to whom price would not be a concern.

       Many of those people did become clients. And a few did not. But there was one guy I especially remember. Why? Because, in my opinion, he was guilty of fraud. After I flew him to Key West, put him up in the best hotel, and discussed his project at length with him, he said, "Everything sounds great... but... I think $15,000 for your upfront fee is too much to pay you."

       I did everything I could to hold onto my temper but, what I really wanted to do was leap across the table we were sitting at, wrap my hands around his neck, lift him up off his chair and in the air, choking him until his entire body was shaking and his legs and feet were dancing around like he was doing the "Funky Chicken".

       But, of course, I didn't do any of that.

       I simply ended the conversation immediately in a civil manner, took him back to his hotel and suggested he get an early flight back to wherever he lived. I think that man was genuinely bewildered by my sudden lack of zero interest in him and his project.

       See, it's no crime to not be able to afford the expertise of someone like myself. But, it is obnoxious to pretend you can afford someone like me... when... you flat-out already know you can't afford me... or... you are unwilling to pay the fees I charge.

      Look, I want you to understand something: I have untold thousands of rabid readers of this newsletter. But, this message is truly only directed at a handful of them. Maybe only one or two. It is only directed to what I call "PWM's" (which is an acronym for "Players With Money").

       Since it is my job to provide my readers with a learning experience, I'm going to do that by demonstrating how to do something I've never quite done before. Many copywriters have written to me complaining they couldn't get any clients. I always tell them, there's no such thing as a world-class copywriter who should be hurting for clients. All he should have to do is write a sales pitch for his services. And, he should then be flooded with more clients than he can handle. By the way, I wrote a newspaper ad once for Jay Abraham that, when it was ran in a single newspaper, brought him in 602 potential clients.

       Anyway, if I were someone else and I had to write a pitch for Gary Halbert's copywriting services(as I guess I am doing now) here are some of the points I would make:

 * Gary Halbert may have hit more "financial home-runs" for his clients than anyone else in history! These clients include Ron LeGrand, Robert Allen, Ernest and Tova Borgnine, award-winning actress Nancy Kwan, Vikki LaMotta and many others, too numerous to mention.

 * Gary Halbert's biggest home-runs have been written for himself or companies in which he had some sort of ownership. Everybody knows about the famous "Coat-of-Arms" letter, which may be the most widely-mailed sales letter in the world with more than 600 million copies mailed. That family crest letter built an organization that needed 700 employees to keep it going... and... 40 of those employees were needed just to make the bank deposits!

 * Gary wrote a sales letter for a diet product for Health Laboratories of America which was so good, it almost made skinny people buy the product! At one point, when the client had run out of diet-related mailing lists, on Gary's recommendation he got the compiled file of everybody in America who had a driver's license. Then, via computer, a simple calculation was done based on the height and weight information in that file. If it turned out a person weighed more than they should for their height, the client mailed Gary's sales letter to that individual. The client mailed millions of letters to that one file and made DOUBLE THE PROFIT.

 * Gary has written for the biggest financial publishers in the world, including Phillips Publishing, KCI, Agoura Publishing and many others whose name you would not recognize! Once he wrote a "penny letter" for Phillips Publishing. (That's a letter that has a penny attached to the front page as a "grabber".) Phillips Publishing mailed so many of those sales letters, they actually had to have the Denver Mint produce many more pennies than they normally would have and had to have them shipped in box cars directly to the Phillips facility.

 * When Tova Borgnine wanted to launch a new perfume, Gary not only created the winning formula for the perfume, he also wrote a newspaper ad that created the biggest perfume launch in history! His ad got more than 7,000 people to show up at the Century Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles. The ad also produced unsolicited purchase orders from monster department stores like Federated (the biggest department store chain in the world), Filines of Boston, the May Company and a host of others. The event was also written up in "Time" magazine. The work Gary did for the Borgnines literally put their company on the map and jumped their gross from $20,000 per month... to... $800,000 per month!

 * Gary wrote an 8-page direct mail promotion for Howard Ruff that doubled his subscription base!

 * Another company hired Gary to help them raise money for their IPO and his full-page newspaper ad (which appeared twice in "Investor's Business Daily") brought in enough qualified investors to produce nearly two hundred million dollars!

 * Gary worked on the Nancy Kwan skin care commercials and made the breakthrough that enabled them to run profitably on TV for nearly two years!

 * Gary wrote a direct mail promotion for CASI (Computer Amusement Systems Inc.) that jumped their gross from three million... to... 13 million a year!

 * But, Gary also made millionaires out of many "Mom and Pop" small type businesses who had very little to start with!

 * Gary helped guys like Jeff Paul, Joe Polish and many others go from eating peanut butter and jelly sandwiches to become multimillionaires!

 * George Zangas (world-famous power lifter) mailed a postcard Gary wrote for him... which... generated $1,000 for every $100 he spent! And George continued to make these profits even though he mailed it to the same list five different times!

 * One of the marketers Gary admires greatly and who is world-famous is Dan Kennedy. Dan Kennedy got his start in marketing working for Halbert's Inc. in Bath, Ohio. At a seminar about a year ago, Dan was talking about a guy who said he couldn't make a profit with the ad he was using. Dan looked at the ad and thought it was spectacular. Dan then discovered it was Gary Halbert who had written the ad! Dan told the guy (and you can hear it on tape), "There's no way to improve this ad. It was written by Gary Halbert. If you can get Gary, and you can get him interested, and you can get him focused, there's no way in the world you're going to get a better piece of marketing copy from anyone else on earth." Dan then pointed out to this guy it was not the ad that was failing but, it was the way the guy was exploiting (actually lack of exploiting) the ad and his failure to set up a proper infra-structure and several other things he was not doing properly. NOTE: I have not quoted Dan word-for-word about what he said about that ad because I do not have that tape right now. But, I have related accurately the gist of his comment.

 * Gary's worked on 17 successful infomercials, wrote the two most successful direct response newspaper ads, has produced scores of highly-successful magazine ads, created several catalogs, developed phone scripts, etc.!

 * Many people say you should include testimonials in all of your sales pitches. Gary stopped collecting unsolicited testimonial letters more than a decade ago after he had already received over 7,000 of them! Now that he has the most widely-read marketing newsletter on the Internet, it would almost be impossible for him to buy enough ink cartridges to print out all the rave testimonials he gets on a daily basis.

      Okay, those are just a few of the points I would make about myself if I were writing an ad to pitch for clients. But, probably the most important consideration you should be aware of is... most of the time... I am not willing to take on any clients. But, I am a little bit "in heat" to work with a few clients now because I have just made what I believe to be is a truly gigantic marketing breakthrough. Everybody in marketing will know about this breakthrough a year from now... but... it will be old news by then. I believe it will work for years to come. But, I think the first people to use it are going to make money beyond their wildest dreams.

       You know, I could write a more compelling sales letter to you for my copywriting services. But frankly I'm tired of writing about myself and this half-assed, sloppy pitch is making me feel "funny". But, I do feel moved to tell you another story.

       I was recently contacted by a guy who said he had read each and every issue of my newsletter on my website and he was thinking about hiring me. He wondered if I would send him a portfolio of ads I had written for other people so he could evaluate whether or not I had enough talent to work for him. I was NOT polite with this guy. I told him something to the effect, "Look, if you've really read all my newsletters, many of which include examples of what I've written for other people, and you are still in doubt as to whether you should hire me or not, you are NOT a serious person." Actually, what I said was much more profane than that. But, I see no need to reprint it here.

       This deal is not for everyone. There are certain people who shouldn't even think about calling me in response to this offer. So please, if you fall into even one of the following categories... do NOT contact me.   

* I don't want to waste one single second with somebody who cannot afford my $15,000 upfront fee and/or thinks they are going to be able to hire me at a discount.

 * Also, I don't want to talk with anyone who has to check with anyone else as to whether or not they should hire me. If you have to check with your lawyer, your accountant, your spouse, your mommy or your daddy or anyone else, just assume it wouldn't be a good idea and don't waste my time.

 * My methods are unusual, to say the least. Don't expect me to slow down to a crawl just to make you comfortable. When it comes to money, I go right for the jugular and, if this takes you out of your comfort zone, you should look in the Yellow Pages of your phone book under "Advertising Agencies" and go ahead and waste your time talking to one of those brilliant Ph.D.'s who'll be happy to create a much more conventional (and totally unprofitable) campaign for you.

 * And, I'm not looking for anyone who has to scrape up the money to hire me. It puts way too much pressure on me to know someone has bet their entire life's savings on me producing a winner for them. And that, if it's not a huge winner, they and their family will be reduced to eating bark off trees.

 * Another thing, if you are hiring me to write a promotion for you, I will want to get a lot of information from you. But, you need to remember that once I have this information, I will write what I think is the best sales message and ask you to check it for factual accuracy. But, I will NOT change the sales pitch I have created just because you and/or your spouse (or someone else) thinks the ad would work better if it were written differently. There is an exception to this. If you, yourself, have written sales pitches (as I have) that have generated billions of dollars in profitable revenue, then I will be interested in what you have to say.

       Remember, I am only one person and I can only do so much work.  So, if you are at all interested in hiring me and becoming a client of mine ("for real"!) call me at (323) 851-8275. And, do it soon.  If I'm not available to take your call, simply leave your name and contact information (phone number and best times to reach you) and I'll return your call as soon as humanly possible..

       One last thing.  Actually, it's two last things.  First, I have a big advantage over every other copywriter.  See, my newsletter is the most widely read marketing publication on earth.  That means people all over the globe are keeping me informed of the latest marketing breakthroughs which I then use when I am crafting sales messages for myself or my clients.

       Secondly, as you probably know by now, one company hired me to raise money for their IPO and I nicknamed the ad I wrote for them the "Water Ad."  There's a good chance you've read that ad.  It's in the envelope that says "Water" on my website.  If you haven't read that ad, or even if you have... I want you to read it again.  That ad pulled in qualified investors willing to pony up in excess of 200 million dollars.  After you have read the ad, I want you to ask yourself if you think somebody besides me could have written that.  If you do know of someone you think could write an ad that powerful... 

Hire Them

Not Me!

       But, I don't think anybody else could have written that ad.  I also don't think you can find a better copywriter than me.  So, if you are interested in my services... and... if you can for real afford to hire me... call 323-851-8275 and leave your number and I will call you right back.  Or, if you prefer, you can e-mail me at nosexgary@aol.com.

 

      Either way, I hope to be working with you soon and I want to thank you for reading this long message.

      

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

	

 

      Peace.


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Secrets of The 700 Million Dollar Man

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2006/the_700_million_dollar_man.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

 

I work out now with a trainer.       

      Six days a week.  Everyday but Sunday.  I do road work on my treadmill and in the park near my apartment.  I pump iron, endure stretching exercises, let my trainer torture me with a medicine ball and take more illegal steroids than Barry Bonds.  (That's not true Dimwit.)

       A few days ago, after finishing my workout, I went to a small diner and ate three steak sandwiches.  After that, I was overcome with the desire to hurt somebody.  I mean bloody their nose, blacken their eyes and kick them in the balls.

       You ever have that happen to you?  You ever became enraged for no reason whatsoever?  I decided it would be a good idea to pound on the young musclehead a few feet away from me in the diner.  Then, it hit me.  I suddenly realized that if I went after him, the bastard would probably fight back!

      I hate that part.  When they fight back.  I'd truly kick a lot of ass if I could find a steady supply of people who wouldn't fight back.

       Oh well.  My mood instantly evaporated.  I gave the musclehead a friendly greeting, tipped the waitress and left the restaurant with no broken bones or bruises.

       What was that all about?  I really don't know.  I haven't a clue why that sudden rage overcame me.  Plus, I don 't have a clue why I'm writing about it.

       So, I'll stop.  I'll go off in another tangent.

       Listen, you ever wonder how many people want me to allow them to write about their product or service in my newsletter?  I can tell you, it's a bunch.  Hundreds of people want to get a recommendation from me.

I turn almost all of them down.

       But, I do make exceptions.  Like when I allowed Scott (Mongo) Haines to tell you about his truly excellent copywriting course.

       Well, I'm gonna do it again.  This time it will be one of my best friends and Master copywriter, John Carlton.  I think you'll enjoy reading about what he has to say.  For one thing, you'll get an inside look into one of the outrageous adventures John and I shared together.  Not only that, what he has to offer is of enormous value!

      Anyway, I'm gonna let him take it from here.  So...

 Here's Johnny!




From: John Carlton

          The most ripped-off copywriter on the Web…

Howdy…

            I just now hung up the phone after another marathon gab-fest with my good friend Gary Halbert… and he asked me to write this little note to you.

            So, while snow pummels my hovel here in the comfy bosom of the Sierras -- a continent away from where Gary basks in tropical warmth -- I’m gonna let you in on a big damn secret.

            Namely… almost everything Gary has been telling you over the years …

Is True.

            I know.  I was there for much of the mayhem, chaos and adventure. 

Watching, participating, sometimes rescuing… and always, always learning.  (The stories I can’t vouch for are mostly about his past sex life.  I’m pretty sure he’s exaggerating, or at the very least deluded.)

My years hanging out with Halbert were an astonishing ride.  Wealth, fame, disaster, discovery and one amazing marketing adventure after another.

            It will truly be a shame if I go to that Big Ad Agency In The Sky before he does, because I won’t get to write that shocking biographical expose I’ve been threatening him with for a decade. 

And, despite the fact I’m over 13 years younger, I wouldn’t bet on him going first, either -- the man has the health and determination of a prime bull.  He still has more piss and vinegar in him that most twenty-something’s I know.

            I think the bastard is gonna outlive us all, just for spite.

Anyway, what I have to share with you here is vastly important for anyone who’s been following Gary… and who is just itching to finally dive into your own entrepreneurial adventure of hitting it rich… or to put your existing biz on hyper-overdrive and finally start sucking up the major fungolas that have been eluding you.

            In other words… if you’ll let me… I’m gonna offer to deliver the kick in the butt you require to finally put your life and your business on the fast track to attaining the kind of cash-overloaded… pleasure-filled… and excitement-guaranteed success you DON’T deserve.

            No one is truly worthy of the capitalistic wet-dream now available to those who bother to learn the insider secrets, and put them to work.  It’s just too lavish and over-the-top wonderful.

            Still, it really can be yours.  If you want it. 

            Here’s the story:  Gary’s gonna hate me for bringing up age, because we’re both piling up the years.  The bad part of being a veteran businessman is that you can feel a bit cheated that so much time has slipped by.  (No matter how much raw adventure you’ve packed into each day.)

            But the good part is that our experience and knowledge -- both in business and in living life large -- is so vast and deep, we never need to justify our position as teachers. 

We have the goods.  We’re the real thing.

There are lots and lots of wannabes out there pretending to have the savvy of a hardened veteran… but in truth, they’ve never been through a recession, let alone an entire business cycle.

            This experience stuff becomes more and more critical as the world changes around us.    

            The bottom line of your quest for wealth and fame will always and forever be your ability to craft a killer sales pitch.  No matter what business you’re in, and no matter what you’re selling. 

            And the reality of our world is…

The Technology Of Delivering That Pitch Will Always Change,

And Change Abruptly.

You can be the hottest whiz-kid on the Internet today… and be toast tomorrow, when Google changes the rules, or smarter competition pulls the rug out from under you, or -- shudder -- the overburdened infrastructure of the Web collapses.  (You know that Intel, Apple, IBM and Yahoo are already putting together an alternate Web, right?  Because they’re convinced the current configuration cannot withstand the onslaught of millions of Chinese logging on over the next, oh, year or so?)

            Gary and I aren’t like other veteran marketers, and never will be.  Too many of our colleagues over the years became afraid of technology, and are spending their time complaining about how horrible things are now, and great they used to be.

            Or, just as bad, they get locked into ONE way of marketing on the Web.  Put all their cookies into one basket, and lose sleep every night wondering when the hammer will fall.

            That’s just a horseshit way of doing business and living your life. Both Gary and I, in our brief time here on the planet, have already blown through six or seven MAJOR technological changes in the way a sales pitch gets delivered to a prospect… and we’ve mastered them all. 

            Infomercials, toll phone numbers, fax blasting, email blasting, heck, even the battle between Federal Express and the Post Office (which has made express delivery a dream marketing tool for smart marketers with super-targeted lists) have all radically changed the landscape of the advertising game.

            This never-ending roller coaster scares the pants off most marketers.

            But the truly savvy veterans just shrug, and get busy exploiting each new delivery system as it arrives.  And count up the money.

            Newbies who think the Web has always been with us, and will never change, may have stumbled on ways to rake in a few bucks… but their lack of experience is setting them all up for a vicious wake-up call. 

            I LOVE the constant change going on.  It’s been this way my entire career, and every time some technology burp causes everyone to run around screaming about how it’s all “different” now, I just laugh… and adjust. 

            The way you deliver your sales message may change radically.

            But what you PUT into that message will still be based on the “classic” tools of world-class salesmanship. 

            Listen carefully:  You can hire geeks to wrangle with the technology for peanuts. 

But guys who know how to craft a sales pitch that forces people to yank money out of their wallet and throw it at you will always be rare… outrageously well-paid… and always seated comfortably in the front row of the marketing show.

            Remember this:

Nothing Happens

Until The Copy Gets Written.

Zilch.  Nada.  Ads don’t run, Websites don’t get posted, sales letters don’t mail.  Stick strategies don’t go out.  The communication between you and your buying audience grinds to a halt… and the money pipeline shuts down.

            Clank.

            That’s why this message is so important.  Between Gary and myself, you are in the presence of the two most effective and experienced teachers in advertising. 

            Unlike almost everyone else in the market today, you have the CHOICE of learning how to be the “go to guy” in your niche… where you can dominate your competition, rake in the most cash, and enjoy the best reputation.

            Discovering veterans like us (who know how to teach) is like finding a secret path under a vast mountain range.  While everyone else kills themselves struggling to climb over the obstacles, you’ll just zoom though to the other side and be well on your way to the Promised Land before they learn their first real lesson in making money.

            It’s a heck of a choice to have -- the option to SHORTCUT your way to glory and wealth. 

And, Damn, But It’s FUN

When This Simple-Yet-Advanced Marketing Stuff

Kicks In.

I first met Gary Halbert at a Jay Abraham party way back in the go-go 1980s.  (At the time, I was trading copy for free run of Jay’s office… a genuine bargain, since I was in my “suck up every scrap of knowledge from the geniuses” mode.)

            Gary was easily the most arrogant, dismissive and self-aggrandizing SOB I’d ever met.

            I liked him immediately. 

            When, a few months later, he suggested that I drop everything and become an overworked copywriter slave for him, I agreed without hesitation. 

            You’ve got to understand -- at that point, I was already well on the path to being a superstar copywriter for the “big mailers” like Agora and Rodale and Phillips and Boardroom. 

I had made a name for myself in Los Angeles as the hot-shot freelancer who got snuck in the back door at the major agencies (to do the critical ad copy their own lame staff couldn’t pull off). 

And I’d already apprenticed as a ghost-writer for Hall-of-Fame proven copywriters like Jim Rutz (for whom I wrote a financial package studded with real pesos that mailed profitably for eight years).

            I literally walked away from a career worth millions… because, in my gut, I knew I was an ill-fit in that corporate world of big mailers and fancy agencies.

            Gary, to my mind, was where the real action was -- the exploding entrepreneurial world.  Where no one wore a tie, the risks were staggering, and every project was an adventure that hinged on the copywriter’s ability to SELL.

            And the money you could earn was just outrageously huge.

            Yet, working without a net like that isn’t everyone’s cup of tea.

            But if you’ve got entrepreneur blood in your veins, it’s the only game around.  Done right, you can earn a vast personal fortune working at your kitchen table in your pajamas… and do it quickly.

            And this was before the Web was even a glint in any marketer’s eye.  Today, you can add two or three zeroes to the money you can make with these tactics.

            I’ve been a top veteran copywriter for over 20 years now… and I’ve stayed on top because of my gluttonous appetite for learning new stuff.  My “Bag of Tricks” is easily among the deepest and most effective arsenals in the industry. 

            I earned my skills, often in the most painful and unglamorous manner possible… but because my learning curve was such a hard slog, I’m now one of the best teachers on the scene.

            My “Rant” newsletter is now in the fourth year of being published monthly, snail-mailed to 16 countries all over the globe (at last count), and considered “must reading” by most of the players in the entrepreneurial niche of the direct marketing world.

            I call myself “the most ripped-off copywriter on the Web” because it’s true -- marketers have, for years, stalked my ads and knocked them off for their own sales efforts.  And my most legendary direct mail letters, Web sites and print ads are used as “study guides” by advanced, super-savvy businessmen world-wide.

            I don’t speak at seminars very often, but when I do I’m usually a featured attraction.  I’ve been the keynote speaker for a couple of Dan Kennedy Boot Camps, the most recent “Big Seminar” in LA put on by the amazing Armand Morin, and many other major events.  (Including seminars by Carl Galletti, Ken McCarthy, Kendrick Cleveland, and even Gary Halbert himself.)

            My own seminars -- like the notorious “Copywriting Sweatshop” and the ground-breaking “License To Steal” workshop -- sell out at $5,000 a seat.

            My blog (www.john-carlton.com) is read by vast numbers of people from the red-hot core of the marketing world.

            And I could go on with the self-promoting, but I’m blushing. 

            Because, you see, I’m actually a fairly shy guy… who was happy working behind the scenes as the notoriously-anonymous “secret weapon” copywriter. 

            But working with Gary changed all that.  He forced me onstage, kicked my butt to go after larger and more ambitious goals… and refused to quit badgering me until I finally started the Rant newsletter, and started giving my own seminars.

            That’s the kind of guy he is.  Never happy to see anyone settle into a routine rut, where life can be slow and normal and uneventful.

            Screw that.

            Life around Halbert is NEVER normal.

            The education in marketing and salesmanship (and, yes, writing copy at a more visceral and more effective level) that I received while working with Gary was dangerous… jam-packed with evil adventure… and the most fun I’ve had in business.

            It was also worth millions of dollars and more.

            He was a vicious mentor.   And plopped me behind the “Big Desk” in his Sunset Boulevard office way before I was ready -- it was sink or swim, and as my head exploded with the work load he piled on me I realized that the head growing back in the ruins of my shoulders was an advanced, and much more savvy, version of my old self.

            Co-producing his first huge marketing seminar nearly killed me.  That’s not a joke.  But pulling that event off changed the way seminars have been produced ever since. 

And I went on to share the stage with Gary for a couple of dozen MORE seminars, each one more outrageous and more challenging and more growth-forcing than the last.

            We were dancing as fast as we could on the shaky cutting-edge of every major marketing breakthrough of the last twenty years. 

            We wrote some of the very first infomercials… back when sharp direct marketers were picking up late-night scrap time on the new cable networks for nothing (literally sometimes for free), filming hour-long pitches in the afternoon and running them hours later.  No one in the “normal” business world even suspected the wealth locked up in those sloppy “wee hour” infomercials.

            We were among the first to divine the goldmine of the “900” toll phone numbers (before they were taken over by the sex industry, even). 

And when I wrote a long-copy ad for the Web in the early 1990s, there was NO ONE else even dabbling in the medium.

            Gary and I have remained close friends, though I could never work with him again.  My heart can’t take it anymore. 

            Many people out there claim to be “action central” in the marketing world… but Halbert really IS. 

            So… what’s all this back-story got to do with you?

            Plenty, if you’re ready to get moving with your own wealth-building.

            You see… Gary launched me on a learning adventure that didn’t end when I left his employ.  I went back and dabbled in the “big mailer” world for a while (the “sex letter” control I wrote for Rodale mailed to millions of names for five years -- after knocking off their best writer -- and has become one of the most ripped pieces of copy in advertising history). 

                        And I took on a handful of clients who were willing to keep the leash off -- meaning, they would mail everything I wrote, without censorship. 

That allowed me to experiment with dangerous concepts… and many of the print, mail and Web ads I created have formed the hardcore base of the most effective “swipe files” around.

            What I bring to the table… is my ability to teach.  If you’re getting everything you need from reading Gary’s postings, or going to his seminars (which I highly recommend doing), then great.

            However… I’ve taught a vast population of people how to write killer copy, and how to dominate their markets, over the past four years… because of an embarrassing secret: 

I SUCK

At Learning The Tough Lessons.

            So I have to learn them again, over and over.

            This tedious, bloody cycle of learning and relearning has given me a rare insight into the teaching process.

            I know the pitfalls, intimately.  And, more important, I now know the shortcuts AROUND the pitfalls… so the people I teach reach their goals in record time.

            Minus the skinned knees and concussions I had to suffer taking the long way around.

            What I offer is not a “copy” of what I learned from Halbert.  Remember, I’d already established myself as a proven copywriter when I met him.

            No.  I wouldn’t be who I am today without the wild ride Gary and I shared over several years. 

            Nevertheless, what I offer is unique and different.  After all this time, I’ve earned a place at the Hall of Fame table, beside Gary and the other veterans who’ve earned a little hard-won notoriety.

            When Gary needs some honest, deep advice from someone he trusts… he calls me.  And when I need a reality check, I call Gary. 

            We’ve been Hot Seating each other for fifteen years.

            And the winner…

Is You.

            If you’re ready.

            Gary asked me to create a special package, just for his subscribers.  And I have done so.

            Let’s call this “The Carlton Blackmail Package”… because that’s what he’s done.  Twisted my arm, until I agreed to give away the farm here. 

            I’ve got a few things on the bastard.  But he’s got just as much on me.  We’re at a stalemate, each holding nasty expose material neither wants daylight shed on.

            If you’ve been following Gary for any length of time, you know that he and I rib each other viciously.  (What’d he call me last year in a newsletter… a “lapdog”?  And then complained to me that too many people didn’t get the joke… because, as he said, I was so OBVIOUSLY one of his best and closest friends, and why in the world would he seriously disrespect a friend like that?)  (I got him back, though.  Our practical jokes on each other go on for years, and they’re brutal.)

            But all that ribbing comes from deep mutual respect.  Most people don’t realize what a meeting among insiders in the business world is actually like.  (Which is why I recorded a bunch of phone calls I had with Gary and Dan Kennedy and other insiders, called The Scuttlebutt Tapes -- I wanted to catch the way we really talked to each other on tape, for posterity.  Plus, it’s a vicious education in real-world advanced marketing.)

            We’re passionate about copywriting, and about cutting-edge marketing.  We’re SERIOUS about this stuff, because it’s the engine that makes the capitalist system churn at full grind. 

            But we couldn’t handle the stress of it all without a world-class sense of humor. 

            We do not take OURSELVES seriously at all.

            We know we’re good.  We know that what we teach works.

            And we have fun teaching it all.

            I tell you this to prepare you for what you’re about to be offered.

            Here’s what is in “The Carlton Blackmail Package”:

First:  You get the industry-jarring course “Kick-Ass Copywriting Secrets of a Marketing Rebel”.  It’s the exact “insider” course I wish was around when I was starting out.  Learning even one or two of these secrets would have short-cut my own success by... oh... ten years at least.  Probably more.  (It can help you leap-frog over the learning process even faster.) 

Included in this best-selling manual are secrets most businesses never discover… such as:

The 10 instantly-effective secrets of a copywriter who was forced to create successful ads... or starve!  (I call it “Gun To The Head Copywriting.”)

The amazing “Lazy Businessman’s 3-Step Shortcut” to creating your first world-class ad.  (How to quickly turn your hidden salesmanship skills into white-hot sales copy... even if you flunked English!)

      How to sell to more customers in a day than you could personally meet in a year!

      How to use the ancient “Function of Seduction” secrets in your advertising to make people desperate to open their wallets and give you money!  (It’s the amazing “lost” secret of all great salesmen and all intensely-successful wealth-building marketing.)

      How to find the head-turning hook that reels customers into your ad like crazy!  (I’ll show you how to be the one thing your prospect reads today that gets his blood pumping and makes him crave what you’re selling.  His adrenaline levels won’t go down until he’s sent you money.)

      How to nail the passionate “sweet spot” of your customer with master-class sales copy!  (You’ll gain instant trust because he feels you’re “just like family”.)

      The one envelope that no one in the history of civilization has ever NOT opened!

      How to write a killer headline that stops your intended audience cold!  (Find the right “trigger” words that will pinch your reader on the ass and force her to drop everything to read your ad.)

      Why your fortune depends on some basic “street savvy”... and how to get it quickly even if you’ve led the most boring life in town.  (A unique secret to turning your overlooked personality and the way people actually talk to each other into huge piles of cash!)

      Very simple tactic to double your profits overnight!  (An astonishingly easy technique well-used by smart businessmen... but ignored by 99% of other marketers!)

      How to close “high ticket” deals for obscenely-large amounts of money -- even in an ad where your prospect can’t see or hold your product!

      11 proven examples of successful direct response concepts you can use immediately (no matter what business you’re in)... plus a Proven Template for your own mega-pulling sales letter!  (An astonishing “how to do it yourself” shortcut map.)

      Why your new “back end” will be the most profitable part of every sale.  (The quickest and most fun “warp-speed education” on multiplying your income you’ll ever get!)

      How to create your own perfect product over a short weekend... so you can start earning your fortune even if you don’t have a real business or anything to sell yet!

      The Marketing Rebel’s “Million Dollar Bag of Tricks” -- 54 proven sales-boosting secrets straight from the trenches... where they bring in massive cash-flow, every day, for the most successful businesses and entrepreneurs in the world!

      The cash-multiplying secret of “Operation MoneySuck”!  (You can skip going to college to get a master’s degree in business -- here’s all you need to know, in a nice tidy 3-pages.  The secret of constant income and success that won’t quit.)

      A quickie “Idiot’s Guide” to consumer psychology!  (Instantly understand exactly what makes your customer tick... and learn how to tickle his “consumer hot buttons” to the point of frenzy.)

      How to sell yourself!  (Yes, these over-the-top salesmanship secrets will change every aspect of your life, no matter what you need -- be it love, money, respect or a fresh start.)

      And... The mysterious force behind every dollar bill in the universe that can hook you into an almost magical stream of cash-flow!  (Even conservative, prominent and well-known business owners use this spooky tactic.  It’s the biggest “x-factor” in rapid success, completely hidden from most people.)

            That’s just a small sample of what you’ll find.  There are 18 sections in this copywriting course... each designed to short-cut your education.  And give you the exact super-detailed roadmap you need to start writing your own earth-shaking copy and create your own ridiculously-successful marketing campaigns.

            There is also a special update included… it was necessary because of all the hot new stuff happening on the Web.  (I remain one of the few “classic” veterans who is wired into the red-hot center of Internet marketing -- it’s why I get invited to speak at so many “Web-Based” seminars.)

Also included is a set of 4 CDs of me talking you through the entire copywriting course (so you can listen in your car, or on headphones at home -- many people find that listening helps them learn faster and retain more)...

            I don’t care if you’ve never written a word of sales copy before in your life.  Or if you’re just starting out.  Or if you’ve taken six other businesses straight into bankruptcy.  Or even if you haven’t got a clue what you want to sell, or where.   

None of that matters.

            The ONLY thing that matters... is your desire to get on the bus.  To start writing ads that bring in sales and cash and new customers in a flood, fast and furious. 

This isn’t brain surgery.  But you cannot “figure it out” on your own.  I’ve already spent the critical 20 years of working hard, hanging out with the great mentors of advertising, making the obvious mistakes and following through on jaw-dropping successes. 

There is absolutely no sane reason why you should want to waste years of your own life attempting to cover this same ground.

This is the course I would have killed to own when I started out. 

But Wait...

There’s More.

With this special offer we’ve arranged… you will also receive a huge volume of my collected letters and ads (including most of the now-famous home run fortune-making pieces that have been ripped off so much online). 

Consider this collection a “swipe file” of the best examples of world-class advertising you’ll ever find in one place.

            Clients have paid me as much as $100,000 (including royalties that still come in) to write a single letter.  They pay these kinds of staggering fees happily... because my stuff works.  They can mail a letter or run one of my ads in magazines for years, gathering huge profits each time.  My Web copy is like an automatic feeding frenzy of profit.  The fees clients pay me are a tiny fraction of the fortune these pieces create. 

            This collection is like having a private pass into Fort Knox.  And, since I explain and break down the techniques and choices I made in each piece...

You Can Easily “Translate” These Monster Winners

Into A Killer Ad For Your Own Needs!

            Included are copies (with complete detailed analysis) of such notorious ads and letters like:

      The “one-legged golfer” ad that scandalized the staid golf magazines (but sold a ton of product for many years).  A prime example of how a single ad can work over and over again, year after year, with almost zero changes to the copy.

     The “sex letter” I wrote for Rodale Books that got me blacklisted there... until they finally mailed it.  It slaughtered the control, and mailed to millions of names worldwide for over 5 years.  (In it, you will discover the secret to “getting inside your customer’s head”... and using his deepest desires to trigger a sale.)

      The multi-page “shock-wave” ads for Navy SEAL training videos that changed the martial arts world forever.  (And introduced the buttoned-down “Wall Street” crowd to kicking ass using combat secrets few civilians will ever find out about.)

      The famous “wow” letter that arrived in mailboxes with a dollar-bill attached to it.  (Selling a ton of information at $377 a pop.)

            And many, many more letters and ads.  All deconstructed and fully outlined for you -- so you know why I used certain words... how the guarantees were decided... the thinking behind the concepts... how the letters pulled... and all the important lessons learned (both good and bad).

            This is mega-valuable stuff.  You see every word of copy used in these promotions... exactly as they were printed.  This absolutely is NOT raw theory -- it’s hard-core PROVEN copy and tactics and secrets that actually grabbed real prospects... and pulled real orders.  You will see what I wrote, understand why I wrote it... and have the opportunity to freely...

Rip Me Off For Your Own Ads And Letters

And Sales Pitches!

            I’ve been offered $5,000 on the spot for such a collection... but I’ve never been motivated to put it together before.  Now that I’ve finally decided to share my secrets... here it is.  One packed-tight collection of material that will shock, titillate and educate the hell out of you.  And you’ll be stunned by the low price I ask.  (More on that in just a moment.)

Plus...

I will buy you a 12-month subscription to my white-hot newsletter “The Marketing Rebel Rant” (normal year’s sub is now $250).  If you don’t fall in love with this irreverent, outrageous and insanely-information-dense newsletter, then you aren’t breathing.  It’s worth the price for the entire package.  It’s an ongoing, very personal mentorship that includes eye-opening sections like:

 ► Salesmanship 101 (where you can learn what the most irresistible salesmen on the planet     know about closing the deal)...

 ►  Lessons From The Vice Squad (things you won’t learn in Sunday school about world-class  marketing tactics)...

 ►  Operation MoneySuck (how to get massive amounts of cash flowing like water in your direction)...

      And an interactive Shame And Success department (where I’ll share super-valuable e-mail and real-time critiques with you). 

Not done yet…

I will also send you ALL back issues of the Rant -- three entire years worth of newsletters… equal to an advanced course on marketing, advertising and life all on its own.  (That’s something that would have cost you $600 to have received as a regular subscriber.)

This is hot stuff. 

This is player material.

PLUS… 

…and I’m only doing this because Halbert insists -- you get...

Two Uncensored FREE Critiques -- Personally Done By Me --

Of Your Most Important Ads!

            This access to a pro writer for critiques is priceless.  I have a well-deserved reputation for being THE most hard-nosed drill sergeant who’s ever helped another person learn to write.  I am brutal with my critiques… because it’s serious business. 

I treat you the SAME WAY I treat myself -- because money is on the line.  Your money, and the success of your business.  I would be committing a crime if I let you send out a bad piece of copy. 

So I tell it like it is -- the exact way I critique my own writing.  To keep pushing it away from mediocre and toward world-class status… where amazing success and wealth awaits. 

Is that enough to get your greed gland salivating?

Well, guess what?

There’s more to this package:

I will also include one my sought-after “Book of Critiques” -- something you otherwise cannot lay your hands on without becoming a member of my elite Insider’s Club. 

This staggeringly huge volume contains several dozen critiques I’ve done for other people.  It’s a dense super-advanced education in the life-changing advice for which I’ve earned a reputation as perhaps the best hands-on teacher alive.

I will also throw in a “One-Half Off” certificate good for a one-on-one “mini-Hot Seat” phone consultation with me, with no expiration date. 

PLUS:  Two BONUSES:  I will also send you, as a bonus you can KEEP no matter what, two of those astonishing Scuttlebutt Tapes I mentioned before -- “The Go To Guy”, with me and Halbert in an “R”-rated discussion of a burning issue for marketing who want to go all the way… and “Success Secrets That Scare Most People Half To Death”, with me and Dan Kennedy.

You get both the CDs and the transcripts -- something I’ve never offered before.

And, finally…

I Will DOUBLE

The Normal Guarantee Time For You.

Usually, I give you a full 3 months to check everything out, and decide if you want to keep it or return it.

For Gary, that’s just not good enough.  So you can take a full 6 months to decide.  And, if you do decide this “blackmail” package isn’t for you -- for any reason at all -- just return it for a fast refund. 

No questions asked.

And you can KEEP the two Scuttlebutt CDs and transcripts.  My gift to you, just for taking the time to check this package I’ve arranged especially for Gary’s subscribers.

I think that’s about it. 

Oh wait… are you curious how much all this will cost you?

Well… my Insider’s Club, where I offer critiques and swipe files and the Rant and other goodies… is a flat $2,400 for one year.  Expensive, yes. 

Worth every penny.

It’s $5,000 to step foot into any of my seminars. 

Heck, to hire me as a copywriter will set you back $20,000, plus a piece of the profit. 

However, Gary has asked me (okay, forced me) to price this little bundle of goodies much more modestly.

Therefore… the price for all of the above, delivered via Federal Express Ground in a big damn box that will blow your mind:  Just $999. 

Here’s what you need to do now: 

There are two ways to complete your order. 

1.  The easiest is to hit one of these two links -- depending on whether you’re ording inside the US or from a foreign country -- which will take you to a Paypal order page created especially for this offer.  (Note: If the link you choose doesn’t instantly take you to the Paypal order page, you may have to hold down your Control key while clicking on the blue link copy)…

Click here to pay by PayPal inside US

Click here to pay by PayPal outside US

The entire transaction will take you just a few minutes, even if this is the first time you’ve ever used Paypal.  It’s brain-dead simple, and your order will be in my hands for processing within hours.

2.  Or… you can print the Priority Order Form below, and fax it to 775-562-2655, or snail mail it to: John Carlton, 316 California Ave. #114, Reno, NV 89509.

You can use your credit card, or write a check payable to Marketing Rebel, LLC.

And I’m done.  The order page is below, along with a few testimonials you may not have seen before -- just a little third part credentialing, so you know I’m not making any of this stuff up.

I hope you give this “Blackmail” package a look-see.  There’s no risk whatsoever -- if you’re not happy, for any reason at all (and you don’t even NEED a reason), just return the material for a fast refund.

But keep the Scuttlebutt CDs.  My gift to you just for looking.

I gotta go. 

Hope to see you soon on the scrolls of the Rant.  I promise not to be nice.

Later,

John Carlton

P.S.  If you order right now, within the next day or so, I’ll send you a note detailing the time I made Gary cry.  God, that was one of the best pranks I ever pulled on him, getting him back for years worth of cruel and unusual practical jokes…

P.P.S.  Aw, heck… I’ll sweeten the deal even more.  If you order right away, I’ll also include a special report (unavailable at any price elsewhere) called “The 20 Clicks”.  These are the exact notes I took during one of the very first seminars I did with Halbert… and I kept detailed track of every marketing tactic he used while doing Hot Seats with business owners.

            People who have followed Halbert’s newsletter for years have lusted after this report… because it shortcuts the business of trying to “figure out what’s in his Bag of Tricks” that allows him to so easily know EXACTLY what to do in, no matter how complex or seemingly-impossible the marketing problem before him is. 

            This is advanced insider knowledge, the stuff of rumor and legend. 

            And I will send it to you, for free, if you order right now.

            So don’t dick around and let this opportunity slip through your fingers.  Either fill out the Order Form below and get it back to me, or hop onto Paypal and get your order into processing immediately. 

            Remember, there’s no risk whatsoever.

            Thanks. 

            The order form is below the following testimonials…

“Over the last 14 days, what you taught me generated an extra $20,979 in sales!  Thanks again.”  Jeff Gardner, TX  (Update:  “After a full month, my take is now $70,000!  Note to self:  Follow John’s advice!”)… “You know that new ‘hook’ you insisted I try in my sales pitch?  It tripled response!  This translates into several hundred thousand dollars in sales over the coming year.  You are on my Christmas gift list for life, dude.”  Lisa Wagner, California… “I’ve written pieces that have pulled in millions of dollars.  Yet, when I sit down to write copy, I pull out my swipe file of John Carlton’s stuff, and study it like my life depended on it.  He is one of the few true experts in advertising.  Pure gold.”  Caleb O’Dowd, Florida…  

 

“My average order is 50% higher (and more) since I adopted your idea.  I love your outlook, and your advice cracks me up while bringing in the results.” Tom Venuto, NJ…  “Dear John: Your strategies have made me hundreds of thousands of dollars.  I consider your copywriting to be so influential on my success, that I’ve literally stalked your ads and sales letters, purchased countless products and services to get on lists… solely so I could collect (and study) the sales letters that you write. This practice has been like a real-world ‘Harvard Business School’ education for me. And I know dozens of millionaire business people and successful ‘guru’s’ that quietly keep an eye on you, follow all that you do, and consider you a major influence on their success.”  Ben Cummings, Park Place Publishing, NY… “Thanks to your tips, I just doubled response on my website!  I’ve never gotten 5 hot sales leads in one and a half hours before, such I just did this afternoon.  This is getting really exciting, fast.”  Perry Marshall, Perry Marshall and Associates…  “John fought hard to get us to mail his sales letter for our new book.  He ruffled so many feathers pushing us past our creative ‘comfort zone’ that he got himself temporarily blacklisted... until, of course, his piece not only knocked off one of our top writers, but also mailed profitably for over 4 years to millions of names.”  Sindy Berner, Production Marketing Manager, Rodale Books, PA…

 

“Just finished a 1,000 trial mailing with new copy using Carlton’s concepts.  Raked in $22,000 the first week.  It worked so good it was scary.”  Dr. John M. La Tourrette, OR… “I implemented your recommendations, and almost DOUBLED my conversion rate on my website!  Awesome.”  Blair Gorman, New Zealand… “This guy turned our business around literally overnight.  Just John’s consulting abilities alone are worth his outrageous fee -- the fact you also get one of the best copywriters alive makes him the biggest bargain in business today.  He throws himself into every aspect of a project... so when the ad runs and the phones start ringing, you’re prepared to capture every dollar.”  Dr. Russell Horine, NuLife Clinics… “I have 20 years of experience with B2B direct response -- I eat salesmen for lunch -- so I bristled at John’s suggestion that I needed to rewrite my sales letter.  Good thing I got over my rage… because listening to John allowed me to penetrate over 10% of a very competitive industry, and I’m still getting 2-3 calls a week.  Thanks for pushing me so hard.”  Dan Page, CO… “Studying John Carlton’s writing, and adapting it to Japanese culture, has allowed me to dominate an entire Asian market.  It’s just unbelievable what you can do when you learn what’s in John’s amazing bag of tricks.”  Markus Kuroda, Japan… “I went from making about $500 a month from my website… to pulling down over $2,000 each month.  And it’s all because of your advice on my copy.  Nothing else changed.”  Fernando Cruz…

 

Click here to print the priority order form

 
 	 
 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

 


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Marketing From Outer Space

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2006/marketing_from_space.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

      Can you think creatively? 

      Oh yeah?  Well, this newsletter is going to give you a chance to prove it. 

       I want you to fire up your computer and go to www.google.com.   You’ve probably been there many times before.  Anyway, I want you to do a search.  What I want you to search for is a phone number.  The number I want you to search for is...

 305 372 0313

       Type that number into the space where you put search terms and then click on search.  Presto!  As soon as you do this you will discover that is the telephone number of the Doubletree Grand Hotel in Miami, Florida.

       That’s pretty neat, ain’t it?  You can type in any telephone number that’s listed in a phone book and google will tell you instantly who or what belongs to that number.

       But, hold on.  You ain’t seen nothin yet.  As you can see, google not only produced the name of the hotel that has that number, it also gives you the address of the hotel.  Now, for our next little magic trick, I want you to google the address of the hotel.  Here’s what you should be searching for... 

1717 N. Bayshore Drive, Miami, FL 33132

       Ok, once you type that in and hit search, you will come to a page that has at the top “Map of 1717 N. Bayshore Dr., Miami, FL 33132.”  Click where it says that.  Ok that will bring you to a page that has a map that shows exactly where that location is located.  Now, look at the upper right hand corner of the map page where there are three boxes.  One says “Map”, one says “Satellite” and one says “Hybrid”.  Click on the box that says “Satellite”.  Doing that will produce a satellite photo of the area where the hotel is located.

      Now, see over to the left of the screen where you have a plus and minus sign and 4 navigational arrows that let you go North, East, South and West.  Click on the plus sign.  As you will see, that let’s you zoom in.  So, click on it again.  Notice how that lets you zoom in even closer?  Click on the plus sign again until you are looking right down on the roof of the hotel.  See the marina in the back of the hotel?  Remember that.

       Now, click on the plus sign again and again.  Now, we’re right dead on top of the hotel.  But, we’re too close to see that marina.  Unless we navigate to it.  Let’s do that.  Click on the arrow that points to the right of the page.  Now you are looking right down on some of the boats in the marina.  See that pinkish, reddish boat that stands out from all the others?  That’s the “No Mercy” which I used to own until I gave it to a friend.

       All right, lets go back to google and search for something else.  Search for...

 637 Pacific Coast Highway, Santa Monica, Ca.  90402 

      Do what you need to do to get to the satellite photo of that address.  Zoom in as close as you can.  You’ll see it’s a house.  I used to live there.  After I moved out the house was sold at auction and...

 It Fetched The Highest Price Ever For A House Sold At Private Auction!

       See the house to the left of it?  The back of the house nearest  the pool is kind of semi-circular shaped.  That house used to belong to Peter Lawford.  It was used as the Western White House by president Kennedy.  Anyway, I live within walking distance of the Grand Hotel in Miami, and, as I said, I used to live in the house located at 637 Pacific Coast Highway in Santa Monica.

       Now, suppose I want to get from where I live now to where I used to live in Santa Monica.  Ok, now you should have the Santa Monica address on your screen.  Click where it says Get Directions in blue.  Now, in the start address block type in the address of the Grand Hotel.  You remember that address, don’t you?  It’s 1717 N. Bayshore Dr., Miami, FL.  33123.  After you’ve got both addresses in their respective boxes, click where it says “Search”.  You’ll get instant detailed instructions on how to get from one location to the other.  You’ll also see on the satellite photo a blue line running all the way coast-to-coast from one location to the other which reveals the route I would have to drive to get from the Miami location to the Santa Monica location. 

       Just look at how detailed those instructions are.  And think about how they popped-up instantly.  Just to be sure you did it right, here are the instructions you should be reading: 

1. Head southeast from Palisades Beach Rd/Pacific Coast Hwy - go 1.0 mi

2. Continue on CA-1 toward Los Angeles (I-10)/Coast Rte - go      0.4 mi  

3. Bear left at I-10 E - go 16 mi

4. Continue on CA-60 E toward Santa Ana (I-5 S)/Pomona - go 52 mi

5. Continue on I-215 S - go 5.1 mi

6. Continue on CA-60 E toward Indio - go 18 mi

7. Take the ramp to Beaumont - go 0.2 mi

8. Merge into I-10 E - go 1,266 mi

9. Take exit 564 to I-410 - go 1.1 mi

10. Merge into I-410 E - go 9.2 mi

11. Take the I-35 S/I-410 S exit 27 to San Antonio - go 0.3 mi

12. Merge into I-410 S - go 5.8 mi

13. Take the I-10 exit 33 to San Antonio/Houston - go 0.1 mi

14. Take the I-10 E ramp to Houston - go 182 mi

15. Take the I-610 N/I-610 S exit 763 - go 0.7 mi

16. Merge into I-610 N - go 14 mi

17. Take the I-10 E/I-10 W exit 26A to Beaumont/Downtown - go 0.2 mi

18. Take the I-10 E ramp to Beaumont - go 260 mi

19. Take the I-10 ramp to New Orleans (I-12)/Hammond - go 0.4 mi

20. Merge into I-10 E - go 3.7 mi

21. Take the I-12 E exit 159 to Hammond - go 86 mi

22. Take the I-10 E exit 85C to Bay St Louis - go 505 mi

23. Take the I-295 exit 356 to Savannah/St Augustine/Int Airport - go 0.1 mi

24. Bear right onto the I-295 S ramp to Orange Park/St Augustine - go 20 mi

25. Take the I-95 S ramp to St Augustine - go 335 mi

26. Take the I-395 exit 2D to Miami Beach - go 1.0 mi

27. Take the ramp to Biscayne Blvd (US-1) - go 0.1 mi

28. Turn left at Biscayne Blvd - go 0.3 mi

29. Turn right at NE 15th St - go 0.1 mi

30. Turn left at N Bayshore Dr - go 0.2 mi

 

      Alrighty then, let’s have some more fun with google.  Go to www.images.google.com.   Here you’ll find a zillion photos archived.  Search for George Bush and, there he is, big as life.  Now search for Chuck Berry.  Search for Elle Macpherson.  (She calls me the “Belly Jelly Man”.)  Search for Jay Abraham.  He looks like a constipated Sicilian, doesn’t he?  Search for Joe Polish.  Isn’t he sort of rat-faced?  Now, for some eye candy; search for Gary Halbert.  Don’t I look spiffy as I offer the ladies of the world a toast?

       Enough.

       Ok, here’s what I suspect is true:  I think many of you already know about all these neat searches and, I bet you know a lot more.  Some of you will already know some of this stuff.  And, many of my readers will find all of this to be new to them.

       It doesn’t matter.  We’ve had our fun.  Now, let’s get serious.  I want all of you to ponder what I’ve just revealed to you.  I want you to think of all the marketing applications of the information you just read.  I got turned on to the satellite photos by my long-time, road dog buddy, Scott (Mongo) Haines.  He learned about it by reading Agoras great online newsletter “Early To Rise”.  (You should be reading that newsletter also.)

       Anyway, to get your brain percolating, I’m going to share with you a few marketing ideas that occurred to me and Mongo.  Say you sell real estate and there’s a special home from which you want to have as an exclusive listing.  Suppose you pull up a satellite photo of that house.  Then you send the photo and a letter to the owner of the house.  The letter goes like this:

             Dear Prospect:

      I am enclosing with this letter a satellite photo of your home.  If you will look at the home three houses North of you, you will see it’s a bright yellow home.  I think your home is much better than this one, but you might be interested to know that I have just sold that yellow house for $693,000 Dollars and I think I could do as well or better if I can have an exclusive listing on your house, bla, bla, bla, bla, bla...

      Ok, suppose you are holding a seminar and you want the people who said they were interested in the seminar to actually come to the seminar.  You print out the directions from a prospect’s home to your seminar location.  You send them directions with the following letter to your prospects:

             Dear Prospect:

      I’m very glad you have decided to attend our seminar.  You have made a very wise decision and I think it will enrichen your pocketbook.  I want to make sure that you attend so I am sending you directions right from your location to the seminar location.  I am looking forward to seeing you and bla, bla, bla, bla, bla...

       Suppose the prospects’ photos can be found by searching Google Images.  You print out those photos and send them to your prospect with a letter that starts like this:

             Dear Mr. Prospect:

      Did you know that seven pictures of you can be found on the internet?  I have printed a miniature picture of these seven photos and I am sending them to you because...bla, bla, bla, bla, bla...

       Okay shitweasel, surely you can finish up that letter.

       Now let’s do something more.  Suppose your prospect buys a Ford 150 pick up truck.  Well, how about you get a satellite photo of the manufacturing facility where that vehicle was produced.  Then, you write a letter to your prospect sending him a satellite photo of the place where his car was made and you reference that in the letter and then you segue into selling him something.

        Look, I want you to do something.  I want you to play around with all of the little secrets I’ve revealed in this newsletter.  I want you to search for telephone numbers and get addresses.  I want you to use those addresses to get satellite photos of the different locations.  When you get the satellite photos, I want you to zoom in, take a close look at things and zoom back out.  And, then, I want you to use the navigational bars and, you can take a tour of wherever you are.  Like, put your own house and get the satellite photo, and then use the navigational bars to take a tour of your town.  I think you’re going to find this stuff pretty fascinating. 

       After you’ve played around I want you to put on your thinking cap and think of all the different ways that you could use what I’ve shown you here in a marketing endeavor.  There’s got to be a zillion ways.  Anyways, this newsletter is just to get your mind engaged.  Anyhow, once you’ve come up with what you think is good application for how this information could be used to get an edge in marketing, I want you to e-mail me at kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com and tell me what you’ve come up with.  

       There’s another thing.  Many of you will know all kinds of other tricks that I don’t know about google and all kinds of interesting things like this that you could do with a computer.  I would like very much if you would e-mail me and tell me about the other neat things you could do and perhaps I will take all of this information and put it in a much more advanced newsletter.

       Anyway, that’s it for this month.  Have yourself some fun touring the world.  By the way, I have been to Bimini, I have been to Miami Beach, I’ve been to South America, I’ve been to Central America, I took a tour of Costa Rica, I’ve been to Cuba, looking at down at the satellite pictures of a close up of Cuba, I’ve been to Puerto Rico and, you know that if you navigate, you can actually navigate with those photos coast-to-coast.  You can go clear up to Canada, you can go to the bottom of South America.  Have some fun with this, use it and then e-mail me and tell me your ideas.

      

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

	

P.S.  Hey!  You know something?  I bet that some of you will become addicted to doing this.  I have.

 

      Double hey!  If you really want to blow your mind, check out      www.earth.google.com.

 

      Peace.


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Jam Packed

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2006/jam_packed.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

      We live in a jam-packed world.

      It reminds me of a guy who, years ago, did a lot of public speaking.  He had a neat gimmick for getting people’s attention.  He had a huge glass jar on stage with him.  He’d tell the audience he was going to fill up the jar.  Then he did.  With rocks.  Rocks about half the size, I think, of a woman’s fist.  Then, he’d tell the audience the jar was full and could they see that?  When people in the audience said yes, they could see that he would say “Hold on a minute.  The jar isn’t really full.”

      Then, he would dump gravel into the jar which would settle in the spaces between the rocks.  He would say that now the jar was full.  When the audience agreed he’d say “No, the jar is not full yet.”

      Then, he’d put sand in the jar.  The sand would settle in spaces between the gravel and the rocks.  He’d get the audience to agree the jar was full and then, he’d tell them otherwise.

      Then, he’d put water in the jar and allow as how, at last, the jar was indeed full.

      Nowadays, I’m guessing, some hot shot would say the jar was not full.  And then he’d insert a hose into the water and pump oxygen into it until the water was saturated with oxygen and only then would he say the jar was full.

      But wait!  Along comes another guy who shoots sub-atomic particles into the jar and saturates it with sub-atomic debris and then say how the jar is full.

      And along comes a guy with an x-ray machine... to hell with it.  I got lost way back there when the guy poured water into the jar.

      But hey, you wanna see some jam-packing going on in your everyday life?  You do?  I can’t imagine why.  But you can see all of this hysterical jam-packing just by turning on your TV.  Watch any show and wait t’il the commercials come on.  You won’t have to wait long.  First, there will be about a dozen of them one right after the other.  No fading to black for a second between commercials- we’re watching one commercial when we’re hit with another with no time to catch our breath.  Then wham!  Another... and another and another, etc.

      And the commercial itself will be superheated and give you no time whatsoever to absorb one image until there’s another.  I think the average 10 second commercial bombards you with about 50 to 60 images.  One cut after another.  1/100 of a second image then cut!  ½ second image cut... 1/3 of a second image cut!  Then image cut!  Image cut, image cut!... Cut!... Cut!... Cut!...

      The sales message?  It doesn’t survive all those cuts.  Your mind will be chopped up with all those cuts and, if someone asks you what you just watched you’ll sit there numb and mutter, “I don’t know really.  I think it was something about a car?

      I’d like to see a car commercial where the only image you saw was that of a new car.  It would stay on screen for the full 10 seconds and there would be a voiceover from a celebrity spokesperson that said, “This is the new Sharpmobile.  It’s really a great car.  You should buy one.”  And this commercial would give maybe a full 6 seconds of relief from the continuing blitz.

      6 seconds!  Wow!  A whole 6 seconds of calm.

      Come to think of it, you know what I didn’t write so far  when I described that blitz of commercials?  I didn’t write about the sound tracks that accompany all of those commercials.  It’s extremely loud, harsh and grating, violent drums, staccato rythmns, screeching horns, explosions.  Yes, your ears have to be tormented along with your visual cortex.

      Now let’s talk about the average Americans’ jam-packed life.  He gets up, turns the radio on so he can hear it while he showers.  After the shower, he fires up his trusty I-Pod, puts on a pair of headphones and listens to hip-hop or some kind of heavy metal music.  Then, it’s off to his computer to check his e-mails.  While the computer plays music through it’s little speakers, then he gets in his car and turns the key to start the car and immediately the car radio is blaring.  He arrives at work, turns off the car and turns on the I-Pod so there will be no dead air as he walks across the parking lot from his car to his office.  He walks in the office and is immediately given a list of phone calls that are waiting for him.  As he walks a short distance to his desk, he can hear seven different radios with seven different stations.  And then he sits down and... never mind.  You can guess what the rest of his day will be like.

      Where I live, there are the sounds of twenty-four hour a day construction work as they endeavor to surround my building with other new buildings.  The cacophony never stops.  I was reminded of all of this as I listened to the CD recordings of my Root Canal Seminar in Los Angeles.  Most of the seminar was taken up by people asking me questions.  They literally sucked me dry.  I am not sure I know anything about marketing that I didn’t reveal at that seminar.  And I revealed a lot of information and inside secrets that I didn’t know I knew.  It was only through the act of teaching to a lot of information starved attendees that I was able to dredge up secrets and techniques I had forgotten.  It was jam-packing in reverse.  Now it was me who bombarded the attendees with information, marketing secrets, sophisticated techniques of marketing I had long forgotten.  There is a moral here.  A lesson.  And that lesson is if you really want to learn something, you need to teach it.  It is the act of teaching that allows your knowledge of a subject to fully blossom.  Your knowledge of a subject will become better organized and you will discover you know a lot more than you thought you knew.  So that’s the lesson of this newsletter.  If you want to more fully understand something, teach what you already know to one or more people, I can sum up this lesson in three words...

 To Learn...TEACH!

      And listen: I haven’t written the detailed sales message that the recordings of my Root Canal Seminar deserves.  In truth, there is so much information on those CD recordings I almost don’t know where to start.  Perhaps I’ll get around to that sometime in the future.  But please take my word for it.  If you want to hear me at my best, while I am being sucked-dry of every marketing secret I know, you need to get these CD’s.  I’m gonna turn it over to Liliana now, who will tell you how to order them.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

 

	

P.S. This is Liliana writing now and I am going to tell you how to order the CD’s of Gary’s Root Canal Seminar.

The price for these invaluable full set of 12 CD’s plus an additional Bonus CD with Merchant Account Services Secrets(that’s a total of 13 CD’s)is only $397.00 It’s easy to order.  Here are your options:

     1) If you want to use PayPal:         

      a) Go to www.PayPal.com

b) Click the "Send Money" tab

c) The email address you want to send money to is "Gary@TheGaryHalbertLetter.com"

d) The amount to send is $397.00

e) In the "Subject" section put "Los Angeles Seminar CD Set"

f) In the "Shipping Information" section, please put your name, address, phone numbers, and email address.

g) Finally, send an email to roxanne@TheGaryHalbertLetter.com and let her know you've made the PayPal payment

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

2) If you want to pay with a credit card but not use PayPal:

Fax Liliana at 786-924-1694 with your credit card details:

a) Your name exactly as it appears on your credit card

b) Credit card number (we can accept Visa, MasterCard and American Express)

c) Credit card expiration date

d) Security code (Visa and MasterCard has 3-digits on the back of the card in the signature panel); (American Express has 4-digits on the front of the card above the credit card number)

e) The BILLING address of your credit card (the address you receive the bills)

f) Finally, please put your name, address, phone numbers, and email address.

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *

3) If you want to pay by check or money order:

Mail your check or money order made payable to "Cherrywood Publishing" in the amount of $397.00 to:

NoMax Publishing Inc.
7510 Sunset Blvd. #1020
Los Angeles, CA 90046  USA
(phone: 323-851-8275)


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Go Ask Alice

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2006/go_ask_alice.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

      The first part of this newsletter is very painful for me to write.                                               

     It forces me to relive recent events about one of the most difficult patches of time in my entire life.  I almost decided not to write about this at all.  But, I can’t not write it.  I try to write as honest a newsletter as I can.  I’m not perfect at it, but I struggle to keep it straight.  Anyways, as I said, I can’t not write it; it just wouldn’t be me.

      Enough stalling.  Let’s get on with it.

      I don’t smoke.  I don’t drink alcoholic beverages.  I don’t use recreational drugs.  This has been true for years.  Many, many years.  In spite of all that, I recently spent 10 days in the intense, detox unit of a local hospital.  I was detoxing from a prescription drug that should never have been prescribed for me at all.  In fact, in my opinion, it should not be prescribed for anyone.

      Ever.

      This medication is described as a “low-level” anti-anxiety drug. It is hugely popular.  You can get a prescription for it from almost any doctor.  Go to the internet and you’ll find endless sources where you can buy it without any prescription at all.  In some countries you can literally buy it over the counter.

      It works like a dream.  If you are tense or anxious, just swallow one of these little suckers and, in less than 20 minutes, your tension and anxiety will evaporate.  Many people use it to get a good night’s sleep.

      It would be great if you could use this pill on a truly “as needed” basis.  But, in my case, after years of using it, it got away from me.  I became dependant on this drug.  For a long time, it helped me get through my day.

     Every day.

      I guess, because of that, you could consider me a weak person.  I wouldn’t argue with you about this.  But, you should know this “innocent” little pill is now considered by many experts to be the biggest drug problem in the world.  It seems to have gotten the best of thousands (make that hundreds of thousands) of other “weak” people.  It has eclipsed heroin, cocaine and even methamphetamine as the world’s major, most dangerous drug.

      Let me help you understand why this is so... and... let me explain what I mean when I say I and countless other people come to be “dependent” on this drug.  It’s not just that people start to pop one of these little pills when they become tense, anxious or have a hard time getting to sleep. 

     No.  The real problem comes when you decide to stop using this drug.  Many people (like me) decide, “Hey, this is getting the best of me.  I’m going to deal with my problems without any kind of chemical help.”  And then, they flush their supply of this drug down the toilet.

 And, That’s When The Nightmare Begins!

      You see, this drug has a very short “half life.”  That means it passes out of your body very, very quickly.  And, 4 to 6 to maybe eight hours after you’ve flushed your drugs down the toilet, you begin to feel tenseness, anxiety and dread like you’ve never known before.  It gets far worse than the symptoms were that got you to first taking this drug.

      It gets worse minute-by-minute.  After two or three days of trying to kick this drug “cold turkey” you will likely start having seizures, convulsions, perhaps a stroke or maybe a heart attack.

More Than 20% Of The People Who Try

To Quit Using This Drug “Cold-Turkey” By Themselves

Actually Die!

      After people try to stop using this drug, they do whatever is necessary to get more of it.  Then, they realize they are between a rock and a hard-place.  They are hooked.

      If they see a competent doctor, he will tell them, if possible, they need to detox in a medical facility.  If not, their other option is to “taper off” cutting down by a mere 10% per week.  Many people (like me) try this.  Usually they try over and over.  But, the “tapering off” experience keeps you at such a high level of discomfort that few people are able to do it.

      Many of those people (like me) at this period actually start using more of this drug and then... 

Their Lives Turn Into A Nightmare On Steroids!

      And so it came to pass, I checked myself into a medical detox center.  I stayed there for 10 days.  It was, to say the least, unpleasant.  This turns out to be the hardest drug to kick in the world.  And, one of the most dangerous.  Even worse than heroin.

      I learned later that, even in this controlled medical environment, it was “touch and go” for me for at least the first five days.  The medical people later told me I went through the roughest detox they had ever seen anyone survive.

      But, I did it.  I somehow managed to “hold on” until it was over.  And now, I am completely free of this drug.  And, as every day goes by, I get stronger physically and clearer mentally and, I am wondering about something:

 If I Was Sharp Before, How Much Better Will I Be Now That I Do

Not Have This Drug Holding Me Down!

      But wait.  I didn’t just write all of this just because I wanted to share a part of my life with you.  I did it for another far more important reason. You see, I’m absolutely certain many of my readers are sliding down the same path as the one I just described.  You see, the drug I’ve been writing about is little ‘ol innocent...

Xanax!

      And, a lot of you are “being helped” by this little innocent drug, aren’t you?

      Listen up: Most drug fatalities are caused by overdose.  But, with some drugs, you are far more likely to die when you try to stop using the drug.  And, Xanax is the number one drug of which this is true.  Hardly anyone ever dies of a Xanax overdose.  Nope.  With Xanax you are more likely to die when you decide to quit using the drug.

      And, don’t think you are ever immune.  It took 15-years until this drug drove me into medical detox.  And much of that time I lived a pretty “ok” life.  But, if you are flirting with using this drug, it could happen to you in 15 days.  You never know.  After a certain point, it is not you who is in control.

      Anyway, I want a small favor from you: If you are using Xanax (even a very small amount), I just want you to visit a website.  It is...

 www.Benzo.org.uk

      Read it.  It will knock you out of your socks.

      And, if you know anyone using Xanax (and it’s almost certain you do) give them this newsletter to read and encourage them to go to the website I just mentioned.

      Listen: My newsletters are all under copyright.  But, forget that as far as this one goes.  You can reproduce and distribute  it until the cows come home.  In fact, I’m begging you to do it.

 You Just Might Save Someone’s Life!

      Alrighty then, now that I’ve set the dismal tone for this newsletter, let me tell you about another recent event that “sucker-punched” me in the gut.  This one doesn’t have the life or death urgency about what I have already written about... but... it is indeed a true downer.

      As many of you know, my assistant, Theresa, has pretty much been the glue that has held my little business together for...

17 Years!

      Also, as many of you already know, she recently got married.  Her marriage came at a complete shock to me.  I had no advance warning or clue.  Also, as her husband insisted, she had to break all ties with me very abruptly.  I thought it was going to be a smooth transition from Theresa to my new assistant, Liliana.  This turned out not be the case.  We were given one day (the day after Christmas) to get all of my computers, products and everything else from the office and storage unit in Ocala to take back here to Miami.  Also, Theresa had one 7-hour day to teach Liliana the computer programs, passwords and codes and the other stuff that makes my business tick.  In other words, it was a valiant attempt to transfer 17 years of business expertise from one person to another in one short day.

      That’s not the worst of it.  We are also forbidden access to Theresa forever.  I have no way to visit her, telephone her, e-mail her, or even send her a smoke signal.  Theresa has been very loyal and helpful to me.  She is a wonderful woman and her contribution to my life has been priceless.

      But, she’s also a Jehovah Witness and, as I understand it, when a JW woman marries, she must, according to the dictates of that religion be almost completely subservient to her husband.  Theresa is a very classy woman.  I think if the situation were different, she’d at least talk with my female assistant from time-to-time to help her work out any glitches.  But, none of that really matters.  What is, is.  And, I’ve simply got to make the best of the cards I’ve been dealt.

      So, I’m here in Miami with a new office, boxes stacked from wall-to-ceiling and, we don’t even have the computers hooked up yet.  You’ll know when they are hooked up because I won’t be able to post this newsletter on my website until then.  So, if you are reading this letter, you know I am in business again.  Sort of.  And, if you’re not reading this newsletter, I am not. 

      Anyway, if you are reading this letter, that means I’m back in business, and I’ve got something to sell.  Don’t tense up.  It has enormous value and you’re not going to have to sell the farm to get it.  Let me tell you about it.  As you probably know, I did a “Root Canal” Seminar in Orlando on December 2nd and another one in Los Angeles on December 9th.  For some insane reason, I decided not to record these seminars.  One guy actually offered to record them for me for free.  I said, “No, I don’t want this one recorded.”  That turned out to be a bad, bad mistake.

      After about five hours of the first day of this seminar, I realized it was turning out to be perhaps the best seminar I’ve ever given.  Then, my staff and I struggled like crazy to find a way to record it.  We even tried using an I-Pod to do the job.  But, to no avail.  It was at this time, I resolved to record the upcoming seminar in Los Angeles.  But, I had learned that Theresa, who usually takes care of the details of stuff like this for me, would not be allowed to go to Los Angeles.

      I was almost panic stricken but, then, a really nice guy, George Graves, said he would attend the L.A. Seminar and he would record it for me.  

Thank God for George!

      So, the Los Angeles Root Canal Seminar did get recorded professionally and I now have all the CD’s of that seminar.  There are 12 CD’s in the set, plus one bonus CD of the only other person that spoke at the seminar besides myself.  He was John Gilvary of US Merchant Services.  And what he talks about on his CD is how to go about getting a merchant account.  Trust me.  You cannot afford to miss out on really good info about merchant accounts that allows you to process credit card orders.  And, when you listen to this CD you will hear explicit instructions on how you can get a merchant account almost immediately. 

     Anyway, I’ve been thinking about these Root Canal Seminars.

      What was it, I puzzled, that made these seminars stand out so much from all the other seminars I had given?  Then it came to me.  It was the format of the seminar.  In the Root Canal seminars what I did was talk for the better part of the entire first day on what people need to know to operate a profitable direct marketing business.  And, what I talked about are things you MUST know that, as far as I know, have not been revealed in any other seminar.  Then, after that, I asked if anyone in the room had marketing problems that I could help them solve.  And, the entire rest of the seminar consisted of me telling people exactly what they were doing wrong and exactly what they needed to do to fix their problems.  I not only answered their questions, I gave them marketing strategies that were essential to make a success out of their business.

      I did this for every single person in the room.  I cannot imagine someone having a problem concerning a direct marketing business that is not addressed and answered on the CD’s of this seminar.  If you only ever buy one thing from me, I hope it is these CD’s.

      The price I’ve decided to charge you for a set of these invaluable CD’s is $397.00 and I will pay the shipping and handling charges. 

Click Here To Order The "Root Canal" Seminar
(start listening to the first day instantly)
 

    Well, that’s it for this issue.  I hope you order my CD’s, I hope you help spread the word about Xanax and I hope you continue to be a loyal reader of this newsletter.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

 

	

P.S. You know, generally, in the P.S. section of most of my newsletters, I try to write something clever, witty and funny, but not this time.  In the month of November, I was flying high.  And then, my life turned around so suddenly it took my breath away.

I don’t think I’ll ever stop being irreverent and I don’t think I’m going to start being politically correct.  But, the last few weeks of my life have changed me.  I’m now, I believe, a much more compassionate person.  I’m less judgmental and I never smart-ass anymore when I see a person who is struggling with his or her situation in life.   

But, don’t worry.  I’m still gonna be the same ‘ol “kick-ass and take-names” Gary that many of you have come to love, hate and think I’m a genius or an articulate writer who is wrong just about everything.  Anyway, thank you for bearing with me through a more than somewhat dismal letter. 

     Peace.


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Enlightening And Extremely Time Sensitive!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/Enlightening-TimeSensitive.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

This will truly be one of the most ENLIGHTENING newsletters you will ever read.

This will truly be one of the most TIME SENSITIVE newsletters you will ever read.

And believe me... if you don't "get it" from this newsletter... you never will.

Follow Along As I Tell You A Little Story...

Once upon a time in a land far, far away lived a fair maiden who worked for an ogre copywriter. She was rather shy and delicate. She always dreamt of taking that giant step of having her own business and of WRITING HER OWN SALES LETTERS... but alas... this fair maiden was just too unsure of herself.

But one day her ogre of a boss said to her, "Fair maiden, my brain is frazzled. I need you to write an issue of my newsletter for me."

 "Oh no!" pleaded the fair maiden. "I am but a fair maiden and NOT a copywriter! I simply type the wonderful words you write... I can't possibly write the words myself!"

"Dear, dear, fair maiden," the ogre replied, "it will be all right. I just need to get my creative juices flowing. If you write something... anything... it'll be the battery charger my brain needs to get going. Don't take it so seriously. Just give me something... anything... to ignite my brain."

And so the fair maiden sat at her wooden table and with paper and quill pen in hand...

She Began To Write!

When the fair maiden finished her writing assignment, she gave it to the ogre to read. While she sat there holding her breath, the ogre read the entire newsletter. Then he read it a second time.

The ogre took the newsletter to another servant who didn't know the fair maiden had written it. The ogre asked this servant, "I know I'm your boss but I need you to tell me what you think about this newsletter. Don't butter me up or anything. Give it to me straight. No matter how bad you think it is, lay it on the line."

The servant replied honestly, "I don't see where it's any different than your other newsletters. It's your great writing as always."

And with that, the fair maiden's newsletter was published.

For a number of years, this fair maiden wrote newsletters and sales letters and order coupons. But she did it all within her own "comfort zone"... that of ghost writing under her ogre's name and reputation.

Is there a moral to this story? You betcha there is!

No Matter How Inexperienced

You Are At Writing...

You CAN Do It!

The "fair maiden" I've been referring to in this newsletter is none other than "My #1 Trusty Assistant Theresa".

She's drafted a number of sales letters for me over the years.

She's penned and formatted many an order coupon for me (and for some of my clients) over the years.

She's written a number of newsletters for me over the years.

Remember I told you at the beginning of this newsletter it would be ENLIGHTENING? Even though the words were written in a "fairy tale" tone... the words and story are true. If a fair maiden who has no desire to be a copywriter can write sales letters and order coupons and newsletters... than it just goes to prove... YOU CAN DO IT TOO!

And remember I told you at the beginning of this newsletter it would be TIME SENSITIVE? Well, this fair maiden has gone and gotten herself "hitched" (married) and... after 17-years of working with me... she's abandoning me!

Theresa's last day is only two days away (Friday, December 23, 2005) and I think it would be an amazing farewell if all of my newsletter readers told her how she's been an inspiration to them... or how she's helped them at one of my seminars... or how she's bent over backwards to get one of my products to them... or the most important one of all...

How She'll Miss

Working For The Ogre

Sir Gary Of Halbert!

Since I've only given you a few days to do this, you can send your "good-bye" greetings to her by fax at 352/861-1665 or by email to Theresa@TheGaryHalbertLetter.com.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary Halbert

The "Ogre" Himself

 

 

P.S. If you think I'm joking about the writing capabilities of Theresa and you want to see it for yourself, then you need to send an email to me at Gary@TheGaryHalbertLetter.com. In the "Subject Line" of your email write "Fair Maiden's Writing". I'll send you a PDF file (you'll need Adobe Acrobat) to download and read. You won't believe your eyes.

 

Peace.

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Believe It Or Not... Here's Another Gift From Gary Halbert For Internet Marketers!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/12-14-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

In my enthusiasm to send a newsletter that would make a nice holiday gift for all my readers interested in Internet marketing... as hard as it is to believe... I, Sir Gary of Halbert, left something out in that newsletter.

To refresh your memory, what that newsletter was all about was how you could promote your newsletter or product (especially if it has a broad appeal) in 1/4-page ads in thousands of newspapers for the low price of approximately $2.50 to capture the attention of 1,000 subscribers. And since there are an average of two readers for the same newspaper (husband and wife or two business partners) that equals 2,000 sets of eyeballs.

What I neglected to tell you is how to contact Nancy Jones, the woman who will make this possible for you. But, before I give you her contact information, let me tell you a little bit about Nancy.

She's a very nice lady. She's probably the best newspaper space buyer in the entire world. Nancy's so much in demand, she doesn't have time for "chit-chat" and a lot of questions. You already know the answers to ALL of the questions you should be interested in anyway.

Number 1: You can buy 1/4 page ads in almost any newspaper in the United States for only $2.50 per every 1,000 subscribers. 

Number 2: There is no Number 2. There's nothing else you really need to know. You are either ready to take advantage of this incredible opportunity... or... you are not.

I sincerely request that, if you are NOT ready, you do NOT bother Nancy. However, if you ARE ready (and the sooner the better) you should call her immediately at (727) 535-7899 (that's in Florida).

I have a suggestion for all of you: If you're running a Google ad word campaign, you only have about 17 characters and that includes spaces and punctuation marks to attract a customer. If you run a 1/4-page ad campaign in the newspapers, you can actually use over 1,000 words and that does not include spaces or punctuation marks. So if you are at all interested in this, why not try a newspaper and see how well it works for you? Gosh...

It Would "Set You Back" A Little Over $250...

But... You Would Have An Answer That Is

Potentially Worth Millions Of Dollars!

Well, that's it for today. If you're interested... and SERIOUS... give Nancy a call and see how much of a boost this traffic-building technique will give your business.

Oh yeah, one more thing: If you "spread the word of my wonderfulness" like I mentioned in yesterday's newsletter, please send the "You Owe Me" email to me at NoSexGary@aol.com.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S. It has just been discovered that Santa Claus is Jewish, Muslim, Catholic, Black, Latino, Asian, Female, Homosexual, and has a touch of evil in his past. Therefore, he will come visit everybody who will welcome him.

 

 

Peace.

 

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Gary Halbert's Present For Internet Marketers!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/12-12-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

If you have any interest in Internet marketing whatsoever, what I am going to include in this newsletter will be a very special... and very valuable... holiday gift.

I'm going to teach you...

A New, Inexpensive Way

To Get More Traffic To Your Website

Than You Would Ever Believe Possible!

To begin with, I am going to reproduce a 1/4-page newspaper ad right here in this newsletter which will appear in newspapers all over the United States during this month (December) and next month (January).

 

Free Website Reveals The Most Hard-Nosed, Realistic Money-Making Secrets On The Entire Internet!

New research has uncovered an almost unknown website that reveals more real money-making secrets than anyplace else on the entire Internet. This website is 100% free. There are no sponsored links, no registration required, no pop-up ads, no banner ads and nothing you have to buy.

Here's just a small sample (very small) of the hard-hitting, money-making secrets you'll discover when you go to this website:

t  How to get as much money as you need to really get your business rolling... and... get it without borrowing!

t  How to get a product to sell if you don't have one already... and... how to get it for nothing!

t  How to use an ordinary phone line ($15.00 per month), a Radio Shack answering machine, and classified ads to make 15 times as much income as the average American heart surgeon!

t  How to get the exact name and address of thousands of people who would love to send you money!

t  How to mail up to 100,000 letters per week at no cost whatsoever... not even postage!

t  What to write on a cheap little postcard that will make people flood you with cash!

t  How to use 976 and 900 numbers to get people to pay to hear all about what you want to sell them!

t  How to use the yellow pages of your phone book in a secret way that will flush out huge wads of money!

t  How to use cheap little classified ads to make as much as $10,000 per day!

t  How to get yourself or your product featured on cable TV at no cost whatsoever!

t  How to get movie and TV stars to help you sell your products and services!

t  An amazing secret that can turn your local newspaper into your own personal goldmine!

t  Seven sure fire ways to become a millionaire even if you only have $500.00 to get started!

t  How to write one letter... and... fill out one form... and... get an instant paycheck for up to $35,000!

t  How to totally eliminate lawsuits! (Lawyers will hate this more than anything ever written.)

t  The secret of perfect putting! (This has nothing to do with business or advertising... but... so many people love golf, this info is included on the website.)

t  10 amazing ways to lose weight that work like crazy! (Again, nothing to do with marketing or business but, it's vital info for millions of people.)

t  How to use CIA files to beat your competition! (Yes, they ARE available... and... you can get them.)

t  A video camera, a legal pad, a ballpoint pen: All you need to make more money than you can count!

t  What question you must ask when you rent a car to get the lowest price humanly possible!

t  How to get the maximum (ethical) price for whatever it is you are selling!

t  How to fly anywhere in the world at the lowest possible price!

t  How to protect yourself against your own attorney! (Note: This is 100 times more important than protecting yourself against your opponent's attorney.)

t  How to make $14,750 by sending just two faxes!

t  3 lies all intelligent men always tell women!

t  17 lies all intelligent women always tell men!

t  The top 100 most searched for words on the Internet!

t  How to overcome the body chemical that keeps you fat!

t  The secret "red convertible" technique that can get almost any man to work for you!

t  How to instantly increase your problem solving ability by 250%!

t  Why sometimes missing an appointment (deliberately) can increase your income!

t  How to gain an immediate "psychological edge" on anyone who is doing a business deal with you!

t  Secret internet software only very, very rich people know about!

t  How to use the "evaporating deal" technique to win almost every business negotiation!

t  How to get all of your advertising read by 500% more people without changing a single word or increasing the size of your ad! (You'll be shocked and amazed at how simple this is... and... by how well it works.)

t  Exactly how long it should take your web page to load! (Any longer and you'll lose people in droves.)

t  How to use sex appeal in your advertising without offending your customers!

t  How to create an "engineered paradigm change"! (This absolutely guarantees you will achieve almost ANY goal.)

t  How to chart your "energy curve" and use this info to dramatically enhance your quality of life!

t The two worst mistakes you can make when you are meeting someone new you want to impress!

t 17 stocks you must dump immediately! (Note: It doesn't matter when you are reading this. These stocks have to be removed from your portfolio under any circumstances.)

t What you should do if you are going to have an operation that will speed up your recovery by as much as 75%! (Your doctor will never tell you this.)

t  A secret direct mail technique that has produced response rates as high as 90%! (Use this on your next mailing and watch your results and profits soar.)

t An open letter to anyone who owns a corporation... and foolishly... believes it will protect his personal assets!

t  How to do 90% of your business... outside... the legal system... and... how to do it legally!

t  What you should do to the light bulbs in your house that can dramatically help you sell it!

t  The single-most important thing you must do... if... you seriously want to be rich!

t  And much, much more!

Anyway, that's just a small (very tiny) sample of what you will find on this website. Go there immediately if you want to take a wealth and success journey that you've only dreamed about until now.

www.TheGaryHalbertLetter.com

Remember, there's nothing to buy... no sponsored links... no pop-up ads... and... no registration needed. This website is "for real" 100% free.

WARNING: Don't go to the website if you are offended by being told the truth, don't have an open mind, or will be put off by the occasional well-placed profanity. The truth isn't always easy to take. And often, it's not pretty. If you are looking for "political correctness" instead of reality, this is NOT a website you should be reading.

 

 

Now that you have read that 1/4-page newspaper ad, I would like you to take a guess as to how much it will cost me to run that ad in an average daily newspaper.

Believe it or not, because I know how to buy newspaper space and get a 90% discount... and... because I use the best media buyer in the world (Nancy Jones) my cost of running that ad in a daily newspaper is only $2.50 per thousand circulation.

Something else you should know is, the SAME average newspaper is read by something like 2.3 to 2.7 people. Let's level it off and say the same  newspaper is read by 2 people (such as a husband and wife or two business partners).

That means I am exposing a very long piece of copy to 2,000 people for only $2.50. (Remember, I buy space at $2.50 per 1,000... but... a husband/wife or two business partners will be reading the same newspaper.) That means I am getting 2,000 people to look at this almost-irresistible piece of copy for a total cost of approximately 1/10th of one cent.

Let's say only 50% of those 2,000 newspaper readers see and read my ad. That means 1,000 people are reading my ad... which boils down to a cost of 1/4th of one cent per reader.

And what if only 10% of those 2,000 pairs of eyeballs read my ad? That means I'm getting 200 readers for $2.50... which is equal to 1¢ per newspaper reader.

Now, let's pretend everybody who reads the newspaper ad does go to my website. That would be the same as a "click" if you were using Google ad words.

Know this: If you are doing a Google ad word campaign, you are limited to a very small number of characters to attract people to read your message. As you've noticed, my newspaper ad uses more than 1,000 words to attract people to read my message. I think my conversion rate is going to be unusually high. Why do I feel that way? Ask yourself this...

Who Do You Know Who Would Read That Newspaper Ad

With All Those Fascinating Bullets And Then Go To

A Free Website To Find Out The Answers?!

And know this: Print readers attracted to your website (people who read newspapers, magazines, and direct mail letters), are a far higher quality of reader... than... readers attracted to your website from the Internet and its culture of cheapness.

This is the greatest, little-known website traffic building secret and it is almost unknown to every website marketer on earth.

You know what I'm really kind of proud of? You know Bill O'Reilly who's on Fox News every day promoting what he calls the "Bill O'Reilly Factor"? Well, several times a day while he's on the air, he promotes his website, BillOReilly.com. And you know the sanctimonious drug addict, Rush Limbaugh who has the most listened to radio show in the world? He promotes his website RushLimbaugh.com every day on his radio show. But guess what? I get about 5-times the readership of both those guys put together... and... I've done almost nothing to promote my website except to suggest to my readers they tell others about it!

I'm not sure it's true but I believe I am now read by more people on the Internet than any other single individual. Certainly there are websites which get more traffic than mine. These are usually search engines, porno sites, booking travel sites, and so forth. But people don't go to those sites to read them.

And yes, The Drudge Report gets far more readership than my website. But he has at least 250 people writing for him. CNN.com and the NewYorkTimes.com get more readership than my website. But then again, they both have an enormous number of people producing content for them.

But as far as a "lone wolf" individual standing out from the crowd, I'm rather proud of the fact, I believe I am the most highly read INDIVIDUAL on the Internet.

Even so, I would like to be even more highly read. And here's how I think I can accomplish that...

Now That I've Given You This Valuable Holiday Gift,

I Think It Only Fair You Give Me One In Return!

And it won't cost you a single penny.

I want you to forward THIS newsletter to anyone you know who is interested in Internet marketing and is not already reading my website. You could say something like:

"Hey, you should be reading Gary Halbert's FREE Internet website newsletters. You should read each and every issue he publishes. They're ALL FREE! And his stuff is so good, I think you should forward this valuable website information to others, just as I forwarded it to you. The website address is www.TheGaryHalbertLetter.com."

If you do this for me, I'll do something nice for you. I don't know what that will be yet... but... it will be something nice and it will be valuable.

So, if you want to make my Christmas merry, my Hanukkah happy, forward the information in this newsletter to someone else... ask them to read the valuable information... and ask them to forward it to other people. Think of it this way: It is your duty and your honor as a peace-loving citizen to spread the word of my wonderfulness throughout the Internet world.

Thank you.

Have a Merry Christmas, Happy Hanukkah, or at least a nice holiday season. By the way, you should try to avoid going on your roof when Santa's sleigh is there. The runners on which his sleigh sits have been sharpened by his little elves and they now have a razor-edge equivalent to a doctor's scalpel. By messing around on the roof while Santa's up there, you could easily lose one of your arms or legs. And that would almost certainly put a damper on your enjoyment of the holidays.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S. If you actually do as I ask and forward my newsletter to one or more other people, please send me an email to NoSexGary@aol.com and in the "Subject Line" you could write "You Owe Me." In the "Body" of your email, you could include your name... and if you want... your "snail mail" address.

 

Peace.

 

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## More Secrets Of The Water Ad!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/11-21-05reveal1.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber

Here at long last, is the complete story of the "water ad". I think you're going to find it was worth waiting for.

It all began when a friend of mine from Colorado called me. He told me about this remarkable new invention (the water bottle featured in the ad) and how a company called "Seychelle Technologies" was going to "go public" to raise a lot of money so they could sell this remarkable invention all over the world. He said Seychelle Technologies was in the formative stage and they needed someone to help them with publicity and marketing.

Then this friend arranged a telephone meeting between the CEO (DuSean Berkich) and myself. He and I hit it off on the phone and I agreed to go to Irvine, California and take on the job of promoting this product. They paid me a very generous weekly salary, a new car to drive, and a furnished apartment to live in while I was in California.

There's a lot more to this story than just the writing of the ad. But, I'm going to start with that part of it (the writing).

First of all, you need to know what I was trying to accomplish with that ad.

As you may or may not know, when a company wants to "go public" there is a 45-day "quiet period" they must obey after they have made their initial filing to go public with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In other words, they cannot send out press releases or hype their company in any way during this 45-day "quiet period". I think the rules concerning the quiet period may have changed over the years. I don't know exactly what they are now because I haven't kept current with that.

However, at that period in time, Seychelle Technologies had not filed with the SEC. And according to their lawyer, it was legally okay for me to write an ad talking about the company. So the purpose of the ad was to generate an enormous amount of interest from people who would want to invest in the company after it had filed with the SEC and the stock was available for trading. In other words, I was hired to make this company a sensation among investors just before it was to get off the ground.

I did an enormous amount of research before I started writing the ad. I learned so much about water from the scientist, Carl Palmer, it literally astonished me.

You should also know Seychelle's lawyer vetted and okayed every single word of the ad.

Here Is The First Big Secret Of The Ad:

I want you to imagine you are at a very high class cocktail party in New York City. And a gorgeous young woman is there who is being courted by almost every man at the party. Each of them chat her up to the best of their ability. They are all trying to figure out what appeal they could use to attract her to them so they could establish a relationship with her.

One guy talks about his show business connections and how he could get her jobs as an actress in several different movies.

Another guy tells her that he represents models and she is so beautiful if they worked together, he could almost assure her she would be on the cover of almost every popular magazine in America.

Several other guys try to impress her with how much money they have. They talk about the companies they own, the yachts they have as play toys, the Ferraris, Lamborginies and Rolls Royces they drive, and how their wealth is so obscene, they and anybody connected with them, will never again have to worry about anything to do with money.

A couple guys are just drop-dead good looking and they try to attract her  with their wit, good looks and animal magnetism.

None of this seems to work on her very well.

Then a youngish, somewhat unattractive man walks over to her and whispers a few words in her ear. Her face brightens with a 1,000 megawatt smile she says "Yeah! Let's do it!" and she gets up and walks out of that party arm-in-arm with that lucky man.

What was the difference that made him successful while everyone else struck out? It's very simple: You see...

He Knew A Secret About Her...

He Knew She Had A Secret Desire!

And when you're trying to sell something there is no more powerful piece of ammunition you can have than to know someone's real deep-down core desires.

In this case, the young woman was a heroine addict. And this man recognized her as such.

What he whispered in her ear was simply, "Hey, look down here in my hand. I just scored some of the best smack in New York City. You want to get high with me?"

And, of course, she's up and out of the room like a rocket.

It's worth repeating: There is no more of an edge in marketing (and life)  than... knowing the hidden desires of the people you are trying to sell.

Each and every group of people... doctors, psychiatrists, policemen, mothers, plumbers, etc. have certain desires and knowledge that is not shared by other groups of people.

There's a couple books I would like to recommend to you. The first one is called "What Cops Know". It was written by a woman named Connie Fletcher and I think you can get it on Amazon. This woman interviewed 200 Chicago policemen and learned many of the secrets policemen know about people which is not common knowledge. For example, police know when someone is murdered, more than half the time, the person who committed the murder is the person who reported the murder to the police. When cops visit a murder scene, if the crime scene is especially gory and encompasses much of the apartment or house where the murder occurred, and there is blood and gore not only in the bedroom but also in the living room, kitchen, den, etc., they know the murder was likely committed by a homosexual. That's because when one homosexual kills another, it is usually because of an enormous amount of jealousy and rage and the object is not just to kill the other person, but to cause them as much pain and suffering as humanly possible.

Cops also know if they look in your medicine cabinet and find a common product Dermaplast you are probably a man who abuses his wife and children. That's because this is the cosmetic product most useful in hiding the bruises caused by abusive beatings.

If I had to market something to policemen, I would read this book before I wrote a single word because I would want to know as much about them as I could before I tried to market something to them.

The second book I'd like to recommend to you is the "Rice Diet Report" written by Judy Moscovitz. This book was written in 1986 and I think it gives more insight to the emotional problems and the "wiring" of overweight people than any other book ever written.

Why Am I Laboring On This So Long?

It has to do with the fact I know a lot about the people who read "Investors Business Daily."

Have you looked at the "Wall Street Journal" lately? It has become a "fat" publication with all kinds of articles that do not relate to investing. It's almost getting to the point where the publication should change it's name to the "Main Street Journal."

"Investors Business Daily" on the other hand is a "skinny" publication which concentrates on nothing except articles of interest to investors.

By the way, in almost every case a "skinny" publication will always outpull a "fat" one. Take any big city Sunday newspaper. They contain hundreds of pages and dozens of sections. Whenever I get a Sunday paper, it takes me about 10-minutes just to separate the sections into the ones I want to read and the ones I want to throw away. However, in many Sunday newspapers, there is a pull-out magazine called "Parade". "Parade" is one of the most expensive and profitable magazines to advertise in throughout the entire world. A lot of times when I buy the Sunday paper, I'm so overwhelmed by it, I just rummage through it until I find "Parade" and then I pull it out of the paper and throw the rest of the newspaper away. Millions of people do the same thing. It's almost impossible to write an ad and run it in "Parade" magazine and not make a profit.

By the way, just for your edification, if you have an ad which relates to something financial and you run it in the "Wall Street Journal" and then you run the same ad in "Investors Business Daily"... I am going to bet you that you will make at least 700% more profit from the "IBD" ad than you did from the "WSJ". A few years ago, I used to run an ad about once every two months in "IBD". It was a 1-column ad which cost me about $700 and it was typical for that $700 ad to fetch $40,000 to $50,000 in sales.

A lot of you who made guesses said you thought one of the secrets of the success of the water ad was the fact I ran it in "IBD" and the readers of that publication were extremely greedy. That is sorta true but it is not precisely true.

What the readers of "Investors Business Daily" want more than anything else is...




They Want An Edge!

 

They are looking for an "edge" which will give them a leg up on the rest of the investment community. They are struggling to be first to discover hot new facts which will make their investments more profitable. You might think the fact it is more precise to say those investors are looking for an edge as opposed to simply being greedy is not very important. You might think (erroneously) it's pretty much the same thing. It is not. It is a subtle... but very, very important... distinction.

So I started out with an enormous advantage. I decided to run the ad in "IBD" and I knew the true deep down secret of their readers.

Remember the real goal of the ad was to make investors interested in investing in Seychelle Technologies. The real goal of the ad was NOT to sell water bottles. But the trick was to do this in a very Machiavellian way which made those readers ravenous to invest in a company of whose existence they were unaware until they got to the end of the ad.

Now we're going to go over this ad piece by piece and I'm going to allow you to see into my mind and what I was thinking as I wrote every part of the ad.


(Note: My Comments in Blue)


 

WARNING: Do Not Read This

Unless You Are Already Rich!

 





Since this ad was placed in "IBD" there isn't a reader of that publication who wouldn't be sucked in so fast, it would put an advanced Hoover to shame. I believe of all the headlines I have ever written, this is the most impossible one to ignore. In fact, I honestly believe if this headline were ran in ANY publication it would get enormous readership.
If you would like to know how someone can start with a simple idea... and then... generate over $51,000,000 in sales in just one year... this is going to be the most interesting message you will ever read.

 

This is a staple opening for me. I use it over and over because it's a reliable winner. What reader of "IBD" would not want to know how to make $51,000,000 in sales in just one year? I've already got them glued to my message.

 

Here is why: There's a guy in California named Carl Palmer who, until recently, was very wealthy and very bored. He got rich (the first time) by starting a company in 1970 which he sold out to Coca-Cola just three years later in 1973. As part of the deal, he had to sign a "non-compete" agreement with a duration of five years.

After that five years ended, he went back in business and built up another company which was soon acquired by the giant AMF Corporation. After that, Carl developed Shaklee's reverse osmosis home water filtration system... and... in the first year... they did $51 million in sales with that product.




Carl Palmer is now the "star" of this story. He's somebody all the readers can identify with. Somebody that "humanizes" this copy.

 

And so on.

You get the idea. What this guy does is, he comes up with enormously valuable inventions, starts a company to sell those inventions... and soon... he goes nuts with all the hassles of running a business... and so... he sells out (at a huge profit) to some giant corporation that has the resources and the clout to exploit the living daylights out of whatever it is he has invented.

But now, he has outdone himself. Now, at the request of the Seychelle Technologies, Inc., he has invented something that is needed by every human being in the world... and...




This Invention Is Almost

Certain To Generate Billions In Sales!




<

This is a HUGE attention getting subhead. It begins to lead them on the "double readership path".

 

Here's how he came up with his latest invention. He's got a horse ranch somewhere near Pomona, California and one day he was out riding one of his horses... and... he was bored to tears! You see, this guy has a mind that just won't quit. So, he gets to wondering: "What would be the world's best product to develop? Is there anything that every human being on earth must have?"

Yes, there is. It's called water. It's tasteless, odorless, colorless and calorie-free... but... it is vital to all life on earth. It doesn't matter if you are a dog, a cat, a human being, an elephant or a mere microbe, water is essential. And there is no substitute. There are more than five billion people on this planet and every single one of those people needs about 2-1/2 quarts of water... every day... to keep healthy and stay alive.

 

Now we've got a logical hinge. After all, what is the most precious commodity in the world? Outside of air, it has to be water. What is the ONE thing every single human being needs? It's water. This is logical. This makes the prospect's mind say "YES!" I've got the readers nodding their heads "YES!" early in this piece. As I'm sure you know this is very, very important. I've got their undivided attention... plus... I've backed up the huge claim in the subhead above about generating billions in sales.

 

No water, no life.

But, so what? There's more water on earth than there is earth, right? Yes, that's true.




I'm countering a huge objection/question in the mind of the prospect now. I'm reading his mind and therefore building loads of rapport.

 

However, 97% of all that water is sea water. And sea water, of course, is just chock full of salt. Anyone who drinks only sea water will soon die of thirst and dehydration as that person's body tries desperately to flush out all that excess salt. Of course, we humans can use sea water... if... we remove the salt. But, that is very expensive!

 

I'm stating a problem... and... I'm also aggravating that problem.

 

Sea water is not a good choice for agriculture or industry either. It kills most crops and literally (and very quickly) rusts out most machinery.




Yep, I've just illuminated another problem.

 

In truth, only a mere 3% of the world's water is fresh, not salty. But, almost all of that fresh water is locked up in glaciers and ice caps or is deep underground. Which means...


Only A Measly 1% Of All The Water

On This Planet Is Easily Accessible To Mankind!

 

And, much of that water is so polluted it is killing thousands upon thousands of people every day... plus... it is making millions of us horribly sick.

 

That truly sucks, doesn't it? Now I'm upsetting the readers. I'm illuminating a situation which is getting worse and worse and worse... and... I've got them worrying about their OWN health.

 

Do you own a house? If so, go down into your basement with a hacksaw and cut off about an inch of one of your water pipes. Then, get yourself a strong flashlight and take a careful look at the inside of that water pipe. Guess what? Chances are, what you are looking at is NOT going to be pretty. Rust... Sediment... Lead... Dirt... Little flecks of animate matter such as rodent feces... Chlorine... Mercury... and... all sorts of other junk that is really bad news when you put it into your body.

You mean the reader is drinking rodent feces? That truly sucks, doesn't it? I've made this problem real to everybody with the question "Do you own a house?" Who the heck doesn't own a home, or live in a home, right? So this is everybody... and... with total precision, I have described the toxic scum the readers are going to find in their water pipes. So now what I've done is illuminated why each and every person in the civilized world has a water supply which is incredibly toxic. I've told them why... when it comes to water... everyone else is totally screwed. I haven't pulled any punches. I've agitated the problem superbly.

 

Think about what this means: Even if the city where you live does a perfect job (it doesn't; it doesn't even come close) of purifying your water supply...


Your Water, After Traveling Through Several Miles Of Pipes,

Is Still Likely To Have Lots Of Horrible Stuff In It

When It Comes Out Of Your Faucet!

 

I'm restating the same message as above... but... from a different angle. I'm building different pictures in the prospect's mind. This heightens the emotional intensity in the prospect.

 

But, very likely, your city simply can't do a perfect job of cleaning up your water supply. The problem is just too overwhelming. So, what they do is, they dump chlorine in the water! Which, in a way, is good... because... chlorine kills a lot of those nasty, disease-causing bugs in the water. But hey, you know why it is able to kill all those bugs? It's very simple...




I'm reading the prospect's mind here. He doesn't know it but I'm building up loads and loads of rapport with him? Why, because I've entered his train of thought. I've raised objections at the exact same time he raised those same objections in his own mind. And I've addressed those issues at the exact same time I've got him thinking about them.

Also what I'm doing with all these problems I'm writing about is eliminating the competition. This is an important click on the dial of a good copywriter. This pays huge dividends later when you offer the solution. The effect this is going to have in the mind of the prospect is that MY solution is the ONLY solution. 

 

It's Because Chlorine Is Poison!

That's why most U.S. citizens have fewer cavities in their teeth these days: It's because the chlorine in our drinking water kills those little organic microbes that eat away at the enamel on our teeth. However, using a poison like chlorine to kill the "bad guy" microbes is sort of like undergoing chemotherapy when you have cancer. In other words, not only do the cancer cells get zapped; many of your non-cancerous cells also get zapped... and often... your hair falls out, you get extremely tired and your zest for life is considerably diminished.




I'm posing even more problems. Awesome problems. My reader's internal state feels like shit now. By now he's wondering if there's any hope for him. He's mentally dying for a solution.

 

Speaking of cancer, there are five different articles in certified publications from the EPA, Massachusetts General Hospital, University of Alabama, University of Georgia, and the University of Florida that all prove...

Drinking Chlorinated Water

Increases Your Chances Of

Dying From Cancer By 44%!


Plus, it has all kinds of other bad (horribly bad) effects on your health.




Didn't you just love that bit about chlorine? And isn't that analogy I drew about cancer and chemo pure genius? I've got an image already popped up in the prospect's mind of losing hair, losing weight, and looking sickly from the chemo. Not a pretty sight. Brutal!

Not only that, I've introduced statistics! But not just any stats.... reputable stats from the EPA and reputable university. This is "gospel" now.

 

But wait! Don't go getting angry at your municipal water company. They are very likely doing the best job they can considering the huge problems they are trying to solve. Yes, it's true: Chlorine is bad for you. But, the "bad guys" that would otherwise still be alive in our water supply... if... it wasn't chlorinated... is truly the stuff of which nightmares are made.

 

When you start talking about E-coli, omoebic cysts, cryptosporidium, giordia and so on, you are talking about "biological villains" that cause...

Health Problems You Don't Even Want To Know About!




Big scientific technological  words that ooze creditability. I'm establishing myself as an expert on this subject. Throughout this entire ad, I sound like I am "THE" authority on this subject. 

 

Again, chlorine is like chemotherapy: It's the lesser of two evils. In truth, any way you look at it, it's still a terrible situation.




I'm answering the question that no doubt the prospect has in his mind: "Why use chlorine?" This is rather clever on my part. Why? Because I certainly do NOT want the reader to get to the end of this ad with questions left unanswered in his mind. That would massively cut response.

 

So, what's the answer? Well, millions of Americans now have water filtration devices in their homes... and... that does solve part of the problem. However, when Carl Palmer was doing his research, he discovered 50% to 60% of all the water we drink in our lifetime...

Is Water We Drink Away From Home!



I've just knocked out another competitor: Water filtration systems. How? By telling the reader the all important statistic the majority of the water we drink is actually away from our own home. I figure at this stage of the ad, the reader is thinking about filters. But my copy slams them! I was reading their mind with the precision of a Swiss watch. 

 

It's no wonder the bottled water industry is such a big business. How big is it? I'm glad you asked. Just in the United States alone, the annual sales volume of bottled water... is more... than... 4.2 billion dollars!



I'm establishing context here. I'm whetting the prospect's appetite with such huge numbers. This will pay enormous dividends later when I introduce the investment opportunity.

Plus, it backs up my earlier claim about the potential of billions in sales with this invention.

 

But, there's a couple of problems with bottled water: (1) First, there are about 350 different brands and not all of them are selling good water. Some of it is as bad as plain old ordinary tap water. Some of it is worse. In fact, some of it is ordinary tap water. What a racket: Fill a plastic bottle with water from a faucet... and then... sell it at a 2,000% markup! (2) Secondly, whether it's good or bad, all bottled water is expensive.

For example, in Miami Beach at a local convenience store, an 11-ounce bottle of Perrier sells for $1.40. If you bother to do the math, you'll discover this works out to $16.29 per gallon. Actually, because Miami Beach is a resort area and Perrier is one of the more costlier brands of bottled water, this per gallon price is higher than average. However, even in non-resort areas, the usual average price for bottled water is still very high, like maybe $7.00 or $8.00 per gallon.




And now I've knocked out the final competitor: Bottled water. But I've kept the problems coming. By this stage, I've got my reader dying to hear a solution to all of this.

 

Plus, almost every American who buys bottled water buys a lot of it. I mean really a lot! Let's face it: You need water every day. And, if you exercise, you need even more than other people. That's why many health-conscious Americans...

Spend More Than $1,600 Per Year

Just On Bottled Water!




My goal here is to piss off the reader and give him the first hint that maybe there's a huge money-making opportunity here. I'm telling them how they are getting fleeced whenever they purchase bottled water. In essence, I'm stating yet another problem! By now, not only are they plenty pissed off... I've also established the market-size to the prospect. I've proven Americans spend a lot on water! Finally, I've induced an interesting statistic. Holy Shit! Now I've got my reader glued to this ad as Bill Clinton was whenever he was looking at a sexy available female.

Actually by now, I've weaved so much factual information into this ad, stuff that people did NOT know before... this is now something all the readers will be talking about with their friends and relatives around the water cooler and in other social settings.

 

But now, let's talk about something truly exciting. Imagine you go to a store and you buy yourself a bottle of Avian, Perrier, Arrowhead or any other brand of bottled water. Then, you drink the water from that bottle... but... instead of throwing the bottle away and going to the store to get another one... you fill up that empty bottle with water from your faucet... or... from a lake... or... from a river... or... even from a public swimming pool! Next, you put the cap back on the bottle... and... because that cap has an incredibly effective filter on the bottom of it, the water that now comes out of the bottle will be equal to... or better (in taste and purity) than the water you originally purchased.

Only... you didn't have to buy it again!

Which means, instead of paying $7.00 or $8.00 per gallon for bottled water (that is NOT even guaranteed to be pure) you end up getting water that IS guaranteed pure for mere pennies per gallon.

Plus, you don't have to run back to the store whenever you need more water.

Plus, you can take your bottle with its new, space-age, magic filter bottle cap... anywhere you go... even Mexico... and you will always have an endless supply of the purest water you can drink.




Oh, thank God! I've offered a solution! I've given them the "magic pill". The way I described it, the cap is the ultimate solution to this water problem. Think about it: Now they know they can use almost any water source and get clear, clean, healthy water. By the way, wasn't the words "even Mexico" a pure Halbert touch of genius?

 

Sounds like a dream, doesn't it? Well, because of what Carl Palmer has developed for Seychelle Technologies, it is now a dream come true. You see, Carl is the inventor of the reverse osmosis water filtration system which is what he sold to Coca-Cola, AMF and Shaklee. But, that's what Carl invented 27 years ago. It's still a very effective water filtration system and it's still in widespread use. However, the water filtration system Carl has now invented exclusively for Seychelle Technologies... is... leap years ahead... of any other system on the market... including... the one he personally invented 27 years ago.



First up, Carl has credibility by association because he sold out to Coca-Cola. However, that was 27-years ago. By implication though, if Coke bought the original product, you've got to assume it was state-of-the-art. A wonderful product. After all, Coca-Cola is not a mom-and-pop business. This new product then must be absolutely first-rate. But I don't say any of this outright. I simply IMPLY it so vividly they cannot help but picture the truth of it in their own mind. I've seduced the reader ever so delicately and let him form the logical connection in his own mind. This is FAR more powerful than me saying it directly.

 

One of the reasons Carl was able to create this amazing new filter is, he owns the world distribution rights to something called "sorbent media"... which... it turns out... is very likely to be the best water filtration material on this planet. One of the reasons is, it has a "pore size" of only two microns (many water filters have a pore size of 50 to 100 microns) which means that a much higher percentage of the toxic "bad guys" can't get through the filter.



Another "reason why". Critical when you're attempting to write powerful copy.

 

Plus, this material is so thin, if you would unravel the amount of it compressed into this tiny, new, super-effective filter...

It Would Cover A Surface Area

Of 15,000 Square Feet!



What an impressive number! A true "WOW!" factor! Keeps them riveted to my ad. They've gone from being interested... to being absolutely fascinated.

 

This filter also has ionic properties... which means... it has the ability to chemically bond to volatile organic compounds often found in polluted water. In other words, it just reaches out and grabs them (they're another breed of disgusting "toxic villains") and holds them to the surface of the filter.




Holy Shit! We're talking about a miracle invention here!

 

The bottom-line: Water passed through this filter is equal to... or even better... than the water found in any bottled water you can buy anywhere in the world.



Huge benefit statement.

 

The second bottom-line: Because of the unique materials used to create this filter, it can be miniaturized to the size of a walnut and still purify an enormous amount of water. So, what Seychelle Technologies now has ready to market is not water, it's a water bottle that purifies water. It's plastic. About the same size as a bottle of Avian, Perrier, Arrowhead or what have you... but... the difference is... the cap that goes on the bottle has an amazing ionic microfiltration device (it's a major trade secret) attached to the bottom of it... and... a small plastic straw going up through the top of the cap.



I'm now romanticizing this lid. I've left the reader no doubt in his mind whatsoever we're talking about a major trade secret. 

 

Fill the bottle with water (from almost any source), screw on the cap... and then... you can sip through the straw... and drink safe water from any location on earth!



The ultimate magic pill.

 

This space-age water bottle retails for $29.95 and it will purify so much water...

You Can Refill It

More Than 1,000 Times!

To get that same amount of pure water (assuming it is pure) by purchasing bottled water, you would have to spend approximately $1,700.00!

Plus, you'd have to keep going back to the store over and over.



The reader is now thinking, "I want this! I want this! I want this!"

 

This invention saves lives! It has the potential of eradicating a significant percentage of human health problems. It is now being introduced on an emergency basis in Mexico, Argentina, China, Malaysia, Korea, India, and 11 other countries... and... some very private market research indicates that in 1998...

This Product Is Literally

Going To Swamp The U.S. Market!



Many readers will be salivating now. I've not only appealed to the altruistic part of their personality, I've also given them numbers and described a profit potential they can make... while at the same time... saving lives. What you just read caused a HUGE bump on this ad. Because of just that one paragraph above. 

 

Carl Palmer is extremely passionate about this invention.... because... as stated earlier... it can save lives and prevent an enormous amount of human misery. That's why he has chosen to work exclusively with Seychelle Technologies who... in turn... have agreed not to become involved with any other projects... so... they can focus 100% on the production and marketing of this one item!





This gives Carl integrity and even more credibility.

 

Seychelle Technologies (located at 1920 Main Street, Suite 1020, Irvine, California 92614) has enormous growth potential. They are passionately committed to producing and marketing Carl Palmer's amazing new invention... as fast... as their financing will allow them to expand! If you would like to have more information on this exciting company, you are welcome to call and leave your name and address with one of the secretaries at Seychelle Technologies.

When you do that, you will be sent immediately (and free of charge) a video tape that features Carl Palmer explaining his invention... and... another man, DuSean Berkich (CEO of Seychelle Technologies) giving an overview of the company and its plans for expansion. Here's the number:


1-800-000-0000



By now I've got them dialing that 800 number as fast as their pudgy little fingers can move.

 

-------END OF AD-------

 

We received hundreds and hundreds of telephone calls from people wanting the two video tapes. I answered many of those phone calls myself. The people were almost hysterical to get in on this opportunity. They were practically screaming into the phone, "Listen to me. I'm an accredited investor. I can put 10 to 15 million dollars into this deal without breaking a sweat." Call after call came in of that nature.

Unfortunately, they CEO of Seychelle Technologies had no idea he was dealing with the "Wonder Kid Of Marketing", Sir Gary of Halbert, who can generate response like no one else in the world. Only a fraction of the calls got answered. They did not have the videos ready to send out. They did not have a follow-up response in place. Basically, when the phones started ringing off the hook, everybody at Seychelle Technologies... except me of course... was stunned.

They tried to gear up (very clumsily I might add) for what would happen if we ran the ad a second time.

They did run the ad a second time... with approximately the same results. And Seychelle still was not ready. They still could not answer all the phone calls. They still didn't have the videos to send out to the prospects.

 By this time I was sickened. I do not know for sure but a very educated guess I got by working the phones myself was that this ad could have generated four hundred million dollars in investor funding. Here I had a product to promote which was needed by every human on earth and could save millions of lives. And I had worked my ass off creating a masterpiece ad to promote that product. For a group of executives of Seychelle Technologies who, as it turned out, couldn't walk across the room without stepping on their dicks.

But, there's a lot more to this story.

As it turned out Seychelle's CEO (DuSean Berkich) was a master con man.

Later, when he was investigated by a detective agency, it turned out he had left a trail of financially-devastated people all across the United States. He had been doing this continuously for the last 30-years.

He was NOT interested in promoting this miraculous invention. Not really. All he was interested in was the "quick kill".

He cheated everyone he dealt with. He cheated the people who brought him this idea. He cheated Carl Palmer. He cheated the ENTIRE WORLD by not arranging it so this product became a success. All he was interested in was taking the company public and then scarfing off his stock profits as soon as possible. He is very close to being the most despicable human being I've ever encountered. 

I told him I was pulling out of the project. By then he knew I was so valuable to the operation, he offered me an honest-to-God one million dollars to stay with Seychelle. I refused. But then he made a monster mistake.

You see, DuSean Berkich was a pure-bred sociopath. He had no compassion for other people whatsoever. And without knowing how I would react to it, he screwed two of my best friends in an exceptionally cruel fashion.

One of them was a girl I had met in Miami Beach. Her name was Kari Cherine and I had gotten her a job working with DuSean as a secretary. Then one day, just about a week before Christmas he unceremoniously fired her for no valid reason whatsoever. Truthfully I suspect the man was a closet homosexual and that exceptionally beautiful women had a tendency to enrage him.

Another of my best friends was one of the guys who put this deal together. DuSean cut him out of any part of the potential profits.

DuSean also screwed Carl Palmer the inventor of the water cap.

So I went to the office one last time and I told DuSean I wanted to have a private conversation with him. What I told him is I was going to destroy both him and his company and I was going to do it immediately and he would never know how it happened.

Four days later, Seychelle Technologies collapsed.

If you know much about investing, you know when you are forming an IPO you go on a road trip to raise start-up money. DuSean already had his road trip people in Switzerland, France, all over Europe and the United States. They had been sent there to talk with potential investors. Guess what?

Whenever they walked into a building to talk with a potential investor, one of the assistants in that building would meet them and tell them, "Mr. So and So is not going to meet with you. He is never going to meet with you. And I'm to tell you that you are never welcome on these premises. There is to be no further discussion." Then the road trip representative was unceremoniously ushered out of the building.

And for some reason, all the giant retailers like K-Mart, Wal-Mart, etc. were no longer interested in doing any type of business whatsoever with Seychelle Technologies.

I also told DuSean in that private meeting that not only was I going to destroy him and his company but I was going to haunt him for the rest of his days and he was never going to be able to bilk anyone else.

As it played out, DuSean kept trying to put small scams together in the United States. For "mysterious reasons" nothing seemed to work out for him.

Finally he moved to an offshore location. I got his telephone number and I called him. I checked the time differences between the United States and his offshore location and I made sure the call would arrive at night when he was asleep so it would be picked up by his answering machine. Then I spoke for a few minutes into his answering machine and hung up laughing.

I'm not going to tell you what I said. But I will guarantee you DuSean has never enjoyed 10-minutes of peace of mind since that telephone call.

About 1-1/2 years ago, I got a call from someone who knew DuSean Berkich. We exchanged stories about what an evil and despicable being he was. The reason this man called me was to tell me DuSean had committed suicide. But there was something strange. It seems his body was cremated almost immediately after his death and his lawyer and no one else could come up with a death certificate. 

I don't know whether DuSean Berkich is dead or not. I am not one to rejoice in anyone's death... no matter how evil they are. But I must admit, if I knew for certain DuSean Berkich was indeed deceased, I would shed nary a tear.

I wonder if he's had plastic surgery to change his appearance and is running around damaging more people. If he is, I'd love to know about it. I think if Mr. Berkich is still alive... and you would arrange to put him in a room with me... I wouldn't have to say a single word in order for you to see all the blood drain out of his face and watch him go into convulsions.

One thing about DuSean Berkich: He has a personality trait very typical of con men. Believe it or not, most con men will walk around a honest one hundred million dollars in order to dishonestly scam someone out of a far lesser amount. The "scam" is far more important to them than the money. They get off by destroying people much more than they do by making a legitimate profit.

In case you think I'm being harsh, I think you should know not only did he milk millions of dollars out of people, he was abusive to his wife and children (who by the way attempted suicide while I was in California) and he was indeed a "cancer" on the people of the earth.

What about Carl Palmer? I spent a lot of time with him. He's brilliant. He's a genius. I think he knows more about water filtration than anyone else on earth. He also had (at the time... and maybe still does) a very attractive young wife. He had the arrogance that often comes along with genius. Sometimes I think he was actually silly enough to think he was shaper than me.

I believe Carl Palmer, by default, inherited the stewardship of Seychelle Technologies.

Should you invest in this company? Their symbol is SYEV. Absolutely you should NOT!

SYEV now hardly qualifies for even being a penny stock. It is now sold through what's called the "pink sheets". On some days, it hardly trades at all. Technically although Seychelle is a publicly traded company, there are 22,541,406 outstanding shares of stock. The "float" is only 2,979,820 shares. The rest of the shares, I believe, are owned by a couple of scam artists in the Aspen, Colorado area who would probably dump all the shares on the market the instant it started to rise.

I have enormous respect for Carl Palmer. I think he is a man whose work has massive benefits for mankind. However, I suspect he has a couple of fatal flaws which enable him to be sucked into business situations with unsavory, dishonest people.

The first flaw, at least in my belief, is he has no business savvy whatsoever. He's sorta like me. What I mean is, he's so brilliant at what he does... he's able to get by financially... in spite of making horrible business decisions and blunders.

The second thing I believe is because of his business experience with Shaklee he has been infected with the "MLM Bug". Nowadays, when I discover someone has contracted the "MLM Virus" I don't even try to talk or reason with them. It's like trying to convince a Jew he should convert to Christianity or vice versa. It's like trying to convince a pro-lifer to be pro-choice or vice versa.

I have an image of Carl in my mind. It's rather sad. I picture him at home in California with his beautiful wife, running a tiny Mickey Mouse operation, eking out sales of his miraculous inventions. And trying to cope with the responsibilities of being the major executive of a pathetically crippled public company.

And think about this: Think about the invention this man created. Think of how valuable the invention would have been to the victims of Hurricane Katrina. Think of how valuable that invention would be to all the people who live in Africa. Did you know bad water is responsible for the death of more human beings than anything else in the world?

To put this in context, another thing you need to know is I wrote this ad in 1997. That was at the height of the "dotcom" and IPO boom. Everybody was in a frenzy to get in on the next hot IPO. People's thinking was completely upside down. They believed the more debt a company had, the better the company. They invested millions of dollars in companies which didn't even exist... except for maybe a cubby-hole office. They invested millions of dollars in companies which existed on nothing but an idea, such as an imagined invention which would triple the gas mileage of motor vehicles.

What Carl Palmer probably never realized is that with his invention, he really didn't need a multi-level marketing organization to sell a jillion of them. He also didn't need a public company like Seychelle Technologies. All Carl really needed was a very modest amount of money and a marketing genius to promote his product.

Well, Carl got the marketing genius and he could easily have gotten the money. But like millions of other people in 1997, I think he was a bit "crazed" by the possibility of participating in a hot IPO.

His mind had already (in my opinion) been irreparably damaged by his experience with a MLM organization.

You know, I actually don't know how to end this newsletter. I do know it's a shame everybody in the world doesn't have Carl's remarkable invention. Every word I wrote about it was true. But, I suspect it's never going to happen. I may be wrong but it's my opinion that Carl Palmer is now too damaged to deal with in a sane businesslike way. I also think DuSean Berkich has twisted up Carl's life so thoroughly, it's possible it may never be untangled.

Maybe I'm wrong about all this. Maybe somehow there will be a happy ending. 

 

 	Sincerely,

 	
 	Gary C. Halbert	







P.S. One more thing, I received an excellent analysis of the water ad by a guy named Alexi. I don't know his last name but I want to acknowledge I used a lot of what he had written in his explanation of why this ad worked. And I used a lot of it word-for-word. I don't know who this guy is but, he's a plenty sharp guy.

 

P.S.#2 Here's something which confuses me: You know when someone with money reads an ad like this written by me or some of the other ads I have written and published on my website, I absolutely cannot comprehend why they don't call me first if they need a piece of copy written. I mean honestly, do you think any other copywriter (living or dead) could even approach my sheer genius? In all modesty, I simply can't understand how anyone could escape the fact I am truly the best who ever lived.

 

P.S.#3 At the very least, don't you think you should email me and tell me how much you appreciate me giving you an incredible marketing education like this... which... you couldn't get from anyone else on the planet?!

 

Peace.

 

CLICK HERE TO DISCOVEDR

EVEN MORE SECRETS OF "THE WATER AD"

 




 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Halbert Publishing Inc.  All Rights Reserved.

## A Mysterious Chunk Of Metal That Can Triple Your Online Profits

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/11_30_04Teleseminar.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Wednesday, 9:00 a.m.

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

   Last night I gave a teleseminar that lasted 2 hours and 10 minutes. This teleseminar was set up by Internet copywriters Michael Fortin and Peter Stone.

   I have spent nearly the entire day reading rave messages that were e-mailed to me about the wonderfulness of my teleseminar.

   It was an exciting teleseminar, if I do say so myself. One of the things I told the attendees is, if they would provide me with their snail mail address (and preferably include their phone and fax numbers) I would send them a metal object that would enable them to triple their website profits.

   If you have a website, I want for you to be able to triple your profits also... so... I guess I better tell you what it's all about: Look, if you have a website with regular readers, you should consider your first goal to be to get those readers to send you their snail mail address. Here's why: If you send a sales message via e-mail to 10,000 people... and then... you send that same sales message to those same 10,000 people via snail mail, the snail mail sales pitch will deliver a minimum of 20 times the orders that were generated by the e-mail pitch.

   So, your first task is to get the snail mail addresses from all the people who are reading your website copy for whom, right now, you only have their e-mail address. How do you do this? Guru Gary is about to enlighten you.

   What you do is you make an irresistible offer to send those people something 100% free (and extremely valuable) that cannot be delivered over the Internet. And, right now, at least, you cannot deliver a metal object via the 'Net. If somebody wants you to send them a metal object, they are going to have to give you their snail mail address.

   You just learned the most valuable secret you will ever learn about increasing website profits. Let me pound it into your head...

   Make Those People Give You Their Snail Mail Addresses!

   You want to know what the small metal object I'm going to send those people is? You do? Good. Then I'll tell you...

   It's A Penny!

   Doesn't sound like much, does it? But that penny... when you know how to use it... can make you millions of dollars.

   I beg you, pray let me explain: That penny is going to be attached to the first page of a sales letter, right at the top of the letter. It is one of the best "grabbers" you can use. A "grabber" by Guru Gary's definition, is something you attach to the first page of your sales letter that grabs your reader's attention... which leads him into reading the rest of the letter... which in turn makes him grab his wallet in a rush to cross your palm with silver.

   All of the people who sent me their snail mail address are going to learn two extremely important things: The first, as we've already discussed, is anybody with a website should consider it a priority to get the snail mail addresses of all of his readers.

   The second thing is, if he sends those people a sales letter using a penny as a grabber, he is going to get those people's undivided attention and he's also going to make 20 times (at least) as many sales from that snail mail letter as he would have made from an e-mail pitch.

   By the way, I want to tell you what I am going to try to get all of these people (and you) to buy. It is the audio tapes of the best copywriting seminar I've ever given. Which means, of course, it's the tapes of the best copywriting seminar ever given by anybody. I want to tell you how strongly I feel about these audio tapes.

   If I were dying and I could only give one of my children (or someone else I love) only one item that would ensure they could have a hugely successful life (financially speaking) it would be these tapes. They are better and more informative and more valuable than the tapes of any seminar I have ever given. And conceitedly, I think they contain more valuable info about direct marketing than anybody has ever delivered in any form whatsoever.

   If you want to make millions of dollars in direct marketing, THIS is the educational material that will get you to that goal... faster and more assuredly than anything else in the world.

   You ought to at least read my sales letter that describes these seminar tapes. Hell, even if you don't buy the tapes, the letter will be an extremely valuable addition to your "swipe file". Want me to send you the letter? The letter I'm sending everybody who was on my teleseminar conference call last night? If so, I gotta have your snail mail address. The way to get it to me is to send it to Kevin@TheGaryHalbertLetter.com.

   Send me your snail mail address (and hopefully your phone and fax number) and I'll send you in return perhaps the best sales letter ever written which will offer you a chance to buy the best direct response marketing product ever created.

   If you don't send me your snail mail address, you should be taken out and shot. You will be foregoing the best chance you will ever have to get a killer education that can lead you to wealth beyond your wildest dreams.

   Do it or don't do it. It's actually a litmus test that will tell you who you really are. If you send me your snail mail address, you are going to have a chance to get a direct marketing education superior to anything else ever created If you don't send me your snail mail address, chances are you will continue to be a sniveling, poverty-ridden loser who will never know what it's like to truly live a life of bliss.

It's up to you Buckwheat.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

*Once again, send your snail mail info with your phone and
fax numbers to kevin@TheGaryHalbertLetter.com.

By the way, you're a true Dummy if you don't do it RIGHT
THIS VERY SECOND!
 

Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## A Very Important Newsletter!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2005/11-23-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

 

HAPPY TURKEY DAY!

 

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## That's White Mail!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2009/WhiteMail/WhiteMail.htm

Copyright (c) 2009 NoMax Publishing Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

## That's White Mail II

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2009/WhiteMail/WhiteMail2.htm

Copyright (c) 2009 NoMax Publishing Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

## How To Cash In Big By Using Contests And Sweepstakes To Hype Your Promotions!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zgkk_contests_and_sweepstakes.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

And so it came to pass that I, Sir Gary of Halbert, the amazing Prince of Print, began to wonder, "How best can I help my subscribers this month? What could I do that would help them fill their greedy coffers with huge wads of money which they all seem to be so uncommonly fond?"

Hmn? I've already been teaching them how to make it, fake it, steal it, and wheel and deal it.... what's left? I know! I know! Maybe this month I can help them to....

Win A Fortune!

And, to that end, I am sending you with this letter a brand new genuine (and, as yet, unused) California lottery ticket. Now, what you've got to do is this: You've got to pick up the ticket and place it on your desk, and then rub off the carbon with a coin or perhaps one of your car keys and see if you have won.

But wait! Don't do it till you've finished reading this letter!

You see, this truly should be the second most exciting event of your day because, when you rub off the carbon, you may find you have already won an instant $5,000 plus you may go on to win the "Big Spin" and literally rake in millions.

Zowie! This is pulse-pounding stuff, ain't it? But wait a minute; why did I say this would be the second most exciting event of your day? Why not the first?

The answer, as copywriters like to say, is simple. You see, whether or not you win the California Lottery, you are definitely going to win with this newsletter because you are about to learn....

How To Cash In Big
By Using Contests and Sweepstakes
To Hype Your Promotions!

If you are especially alert, you may have already gleaned a big secret on how to make contest more powerful. Did you catch it? Fear not, I'll reveal what I've already revealed in a more obvious way in just a few minutes. But first, a story. Once upon a time, there was a man named Thomas Hall who was the head of a crew of guys who were selling vacuum cleaners somewhere in Texas. Anyhow, somewhere along the line he got the idea of renting a booth at a county fair and holding a drawing for folks who wanted to win a free vacuum cleaner.

And so he did. And, after he had collected all the entries, he went ahead with the drawing and gave away the free vacuum cleaner to the winner.

But he didn't stop there. No, Sir. What he did next was he wrote a personal letter to all the other people (who didn't win the vacuum cleaner) and told them they had won a very valuable second prize. And what was this valuable second prize? Simply this: It was the prize of being able to come to his place of business and buy a vacuum cleaner minus the rather substantial commission that was normally paid to his door-to-door salesmen.

It worked like crazy. People were lined up around the block outside his little store just waiting to come in and snag one of those vacuum cleaners at an honest and sizable discount.

Why did this work so well? Actually, there are a couple of reasons. First of all....

People Do Not Enter
A Contest To Win Something
They Do Not Want!

Therefore, as a general rule, a construction worker will not enter a contest to win a knitting machine nor, by the same token, will a housewife enter a contest to win a steam shovel. This is a very important item of information. What it tells you is that everybody who enters a contest to win a certain item is an excellent candidate to buy that item. In other words, sponsoring a contest is a super duper way to build a responsive mailing list.

   O.K., now what is that big secret that has already been "partially exposed" at the beginning of this letter? It is this: It is the idea of writing to a person and telling him...

You May Have Already Won!

Here's a quirk of human nature, the understanding of which can immeasurably improve the pull of your ads and letters:

People Will Work Harder
To Keep What They've Already Got
Than They Will To Get Something
They Don't Already Have!

Take a guy who works at a ho-hum job for seven bucks an hour. Hold out a carrot to this guy in the form of a seminar or correspondence course that will teach him how to double his income and you will find you have a very hard time trying to convince him. On the other hand, that same guy will scurry around like a pit bull after a cocker spaniel to prevent having his pay docked as much as 50 cents per hour!

Now, you wanna know something you can say that's even stronger than "You may have already won"? It's this:

"You Have Already Won!"

But don't say it if it ain't so. However, if you can figure a legit way to send that message, you can make a fortune. Like so: Let's say you've got a mailing list of 1,000,000 names and you instruct your computer to randomly select 5,000 of those names who will, by virtue of having been selected, have "won" whatever prize it is you are giving away.

Next, what you do is write these people and tell them  about how they have already won and what they must do to claim their prize. Note: Do not, under any guise, tell them that what they have to do to claim their prize is send you money or buy something.

No. No. No. No. You mustn't do this. Uncle will be watching and he'll get very mad at you if you try to pull this kind of shenanigan. However, it shouldn't hurt if you give your prize winner the option of buying something from you, now should it?

But what if you've got a local operation and you don't do business on a national scale? How then, can you use this "You have won" idea? Not to worry. All you need to do is write your "winning customers" (those whose name you drew out of a hat) and tell them about their prize and that all they have to do to claim their prize is come in and pick it up!

Are you paying attention? I hope so because we are now homing in on a concept that is so obvious that it may have plumb evaded you. And, it's simply this:

Every Person
Who Walks Through Your Door
Is Worth X Amount Of Dollars To You!

For example, let's say your retail business did half a mil in business last year. And, let us say further that that little bing-bong device that goes off every time your door is opened went off 5,000 times last year (about 16 times per day). Well, what that means, my friend, is that it's worth $100.00....

Every Time Your Door Opens!

Which means, of course, you want that little bing-bong device to be going off constantly. Yea verily, let us now strive to make that door open 100 times per day instead of just 16 times.

O.K.? O.K. And the way we're going to start is by writing all of your customers and telling them they've just won something and that they should come in and get it. And, after so informing all our customers, we are next going to send a similar message to all of our prospects.

Here are two important considerations:

1.


2.	Give away something that relates to what you are selling.

Tell your winner he's got to claim his prize by a certain deadline....

Or Else His Prize Will Be Given To Someone Else!

Zowie. Our winner sure won't want that, now will he? And especially not if you write a letter like this:

Dear Friend,

I am writing to tell you that your name was entered into a drawing here at my store and you have won a valuable prize.

As you may know, my store, ABC Jewelry, specializes in low-cost, top-quality diamond rings and diamond earrings. Well, guess what? The other day we got in a small shipment of fake diamonds that are made with a new process that makes them look so real they almost fooled me!

Anyway, I don't want to sell these fakes because they could cause a lot of trouble for the pawnbrokers around town. So, I've decided to give them away to some of my old customers whose names were selected at random by having my wife, Janet, put all the names in a jar and pull out the winners.

So, you're one of the winners and all you've got to do is drop in sometime before 5:00 p.m. Friday and you'll have a 1-karat "diamond" that looks so good it'll knock your eyes out!

                            Sincerely,

 

                            John Jones

P.S.	After 5:00 p.m. Friday, I reserve the 
right to give your prize to someone 
else. Thank you.

Well now, it didn't take much genius to write that, did it? And I bet you can do even better. And, if you do and you do it right, your door will be opening constantly.

More. Did you ever see one of those monster mailings from American Family Publishers written over the signature of Ed McMahon? The latest one I've received comes in a huge envelope that measure 7-1/4" x 11-1/2" inches! On the outside of the envelope, in huge red letters, it says "TELE-DISPATCH" and "EXTREMELY URGENT!" It also says (in white letters) that this message comes "From TV's Ed McMahon." And what does it say inside? Check it out. I'm reproducing it below:

 

Gee, they did it just like I said, didn't they? Nope. I did not teach them how to do it; they seem to have figured it out all by themselves. However, and I swear this is true, I did not read their copy until after I wrote the first part of this letter. But, let's face it:

Great Minds Think Alike!

Now, as most of you know, this is not my kind of mailing package. Nonetheless, in spite of some rather major mistakes, this is a brilliant example of the best of what I call B-pile mail. One of the things they do right (at least, righter than most B-pilers) is the way they personalize the mailing by smearing the recipient's name "Garry Halbert" (sic) across the top of one of their inserts in a headline that says....

Garry Halbert
To Be Awarded
Ten Million Dollars!

They also use personalization effectively in the body copy of their message by personalizing the subheads like this:

Garry Halbert
Could Lose The Ten Million Dollars
By Failing To Act
Before March 18, 1988!

Which brings me to another important point about those contest promotions which is... they should be personal. It's not nearly so effective to say "Dear Friend... You have won..." as it is to say "You, Sir Gary of Halbert, have won..."

So put on your thinking cap. A little mental effort on your part should yield a plethora of ways you can use contests to hype your sales -- no matter what business you are in. And don't forget Ole Guru Gary's ABC's of contesting:

A.

B.


C.	Say "You may have already won" or "You have won!"

Give away a prize that is related to what you are selling.

Personalize your contest-type mailings.

And now, the big moment draws near. Get out your coin or key and scrape the carbon from that ticket. And remember, no matter what's underneath, the fact that you've just finished reading this letter means...

You Have Already Won!

Yahoo!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert
AKA
"The Most Generous Guru
In God's Good Graces!"

 

P.S.	

I get a lot of good ideas from my subscribers and one of those ideas came from Richard Potter (818) 883-1046 who is one of the few copywriters I can recommend without reservation. So anyway, his idea is that the perfect premium for my next renewal effort would be to put together a "greatest hits" collection of my ads and direct mail letters.

Well, I like that idea so much I've decided to do it and not only am I going to include my stuff, but also the great stuff created by other people and I'm going to call it....

               The Masterpiece Collection!

And the first promotion in that collection will be the world-famous coat-of-arms letter which is, I believe, the most widely mailed letter in history.

Now, I'm going to do you a favor and I'm going to ask you for one in return. The favor from me is I'm including with this issue, a copy of the aforementioned letter so you'll have a head start in assembling your own masterpiece collection.

And the favor I'd like from you is your suggestions as to what other ads and letters should be included in the collection.

So, if you've got any ideas, please let me hear from you.

Peace.


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Happy To Be Alive!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2013/nancy-jones.htm

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Today is a sad day indeed. We lost an undercover marketing legend and close Halbert family friend.

Her name is Nancy Jones and if you haven’t heard of her it is because she wanted it that way.

Most of the big direct response advertisers knew she got the very best ad rates humanly possible through her own ingenuity and single-handily made dozens and dozens of losing ads into profitable winners using the trick I’m about to explain.

Nancy has been a fixture in our family since as far back as I can remember.

When we spoke a couple months ago she reminded me of how she used to tuck me into bed for the night.

Anyway, Nancy was not only very good looking in her youth but she also had a brilliant marketing mind.

I view my father’s life or my life with my father in stages.

Nancy goes all the way back to what Kevin and I call The Ohio days when our father was just an average middle class family man who then made it huge by writing what would eventually hold the title for the most widely mailed sales letter in history. That letter is more formally known as known as The Coat of Arms Letter.

She was hired to work at Halbert’s Inc. and soon took up the task of placing ads.

Now obviously, the profit from the sales that come in from an ad have to be more than the cost of the ad to be worth running so... this always puts a limit on how many newspapers and magazines you can run the ads in but Nancy figured out something genius.

Knowing human nature she would send letters to the newspapers and magazines along with a check and note which said in effect...

“Hi,

My name is Nancy Jones and I work for Halberts Inc. and we’d love to run an ad in your paper but after doing the math this wouldn’t be profitable unless we could run it for x amount of dollars. I know this is far below your current card rate but if you have extra space for any reason and can place my ad, I have enclosed a certified check made out for what we can afford to pay.

If you do run the ad you can go ahead and cash the check and if not you can rip it up or send it back.”

Now Nancy Jones knew it is very hard for almost anyone to return money they have in hand and this is why it worked so damn well.

She used this tactic and became the only person the Halbert family has ever recommended for ad placement and I mean the only one ever.

She also really knew targeting.

I remember calling to place an ad through her and she already knew the key demographics I was looking for before I said a word. She also told me which papers were best to run in for my type of promotion and a list of great lead generating papers to follow up with.

My own personal direct marketing dream team included Nancy without question and she is the number one person key players asked me to hook them up with and she really was one of the boys.

The entire time I’ve known Nancy, she has been a titan in a very male dominated world and she could hang with the best of them.

She shared our father’s raw in-your-face honesty along with his wicked sense of humor and a love of boating.

I can’t think of anyone who has been a true close friend to our father longer than Nancy Jones.

They talked regularly from the early 1970s up until our father passed away and she was a great friend to have.

Kevin and I asked a couple times if we could interview her but she shied away from the limelight and I can tell you she shared with us some fantastic stories.

Nancy will be missed by her family and friends but I feel she really deserves a footnote in the direct marketing hall of fame.

God I hope there is a heaven because if there is, my dad and Nancy are yucking it up right now.

With infinite love and affection,
Bond & Kevin

PS I just spoke with her son Andy who placed her eulogy in the Canton Paper. I think it would be great if everyone who knew Nancy Jones could reply to this email (kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com)with a little message about Nancy to show him just how many people shared an appreciation for his mother.

I know those kind of sentiments helped Kevin and I deal with the loss of our father.












Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List




Copyright ï¿½ 2009 Nomax Publishing Inc.  All Rights Reserved.

## My Most Important Newsletter

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2005/10-27-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

In this issue, I am going to reveal in detail the most powerful (and little known) money-making secret I have ever learned in my entire marketing career.

You need to pay VERY CAREFUL attention to EVERY WORD in this newsletter.

The information I am about to give you has already made a few people very rich. It can do the same for you.

Keep an open mind until you've finished reading this entire newsletter... and... your financial reward will be humongous.

First, I am going to give you a brief review of the three primary reasons people do NOT buy whatever it is you are selling:

1) They do not want what you are selling.

2) They cannot afford what you are selling.

3) They do not believe you are telling the truth about your product and they are very skeptical about you delivering on your promises.

The first two reasons are acceptable. The third reason is not. And that is where almost all "lost sales" are lost.

So, what is the best way to alleviate someone's fears about buying your product or service? Well, the very strongest way to do this is to offer to let them have what you are selling and not pay anything whatsoever until a month or 45-days have elapsed since they received whatever you are selling... and... they've had plenty of time to satisfy themselves you are an honest and reliable vendor with 100% integrity.

Believe it or not, a few businesses in the United States do this and they make millions of dollars with this operating model. For example, Rodale Publishing will not allow you to pay for a book in advance. When they send direct mail, they include an order card you simply sign and return to them. This order card says (in essence):

"Please ship me xyz book. I will read it within the next 30-days. And if I am satisfied with the book, I will then pay for it. If I am not satisfied, I will return the book to you and not be charged a single penny."

The real wording of their order cards is slightly different from what I have just written. But I am pretty sure I have communicated the essence of it accurately.

Sources tell me when Rodale sells books this way, they get something like a 70% or 80% "pay-up" rate. However, you should remember Rodale Publishing has a few very powerful advantages most of us "lesser mortals" do not possess.

For example, they have a very large in-house list of proven trustworthy customers.

Secondly, they have very deep pockets and can afford to wait for their money.

Thirdly, they run a very tight ship and their billing notices go out like clockwork.

And last but not least, they've been operating in this manner for decades. So they have all the nuances and little "inside tricks" of doing business this way down to a science.

I do NOT recommend most of my readers attempt to do business this way. But here's a thought: You might want to do your TEST marketing in this manner. Here's why: When you market like this, the results you're going to get are the highest which are humanly possible. Believe it or not, most marketing campaigns... even if constructed in this manner... will not bring back enough replies to justify continuing the campaign.

A big secret to success is...

Failing!

And if you're going to fail, you want to fail as fast as possible so you can get on to your next project. If your marketing doesn't pull a decent return when you don't even ask people to send money... it is certainly not going to pull a decent return when you demand "cash with order".

Okay, here's an alternative which can make a lot of you rich. In a nutshell, it is called...

The 30-Day Hold

The way it works is like this: When you get to the ordering instructions, in your marketing sales letter, ad or webpage, you write something like this:

"We are so sure you will love this product, we are not even going to cash your check until at least 30-days after we have shipped your product. That way, you will have plenty of time to examine our product and discover for yourself how wonderful it is. If you are dissatisfied, you can return the product to us and we will send back to you your UNCASHED check. If you decide to order by credit card, we will not process your credit card for 30-days. So, if you decide to return the product, we will destroy all of your credit card details and your card will never be charged."

Joe Karbo is the first person I know of to use this type of 30-day hold on a large scale. He sold 4 million copies of "The Lazy Man's Way To Riches" by marketing it in the fashion I have just described.

I remember years ago being in Phoenix shooting an infomercial starring me and Don Drysdale (the ex-Dodger pitcher) which was being produced by Dan Kennedy. Guthy-Renker was in the same studio when I was there. They were having a problem with an infomercial selling cosmetics starring Victoria Principal. No matter what they tried, all they could do (at best) was make the infomercial break even. All they were doing was "trading dollars". Then I suggested they try the 30-day hold. They did. The infomercial became wildly profitable and it ran (I believe) for something like 7-years.

I have written two major campaigns relatively recently. One of these campaigns makes a tidy but not spectacular profit when the client uses the 30-day hold. Without the 30-day hold, the promotion is not profitable whatsoever.

I have a relationship with another client who is mailing thousands and thousands of sales letters. These letters would be quite profitable WITHOUT the 30-day hold. However, WITH the 30-day hold, the profits are spectacular!

Let me give you some numbers to chew on.

Let's say you spend $1,000 to pay for your advertising. Let's say you are mailing all the letters you can mail for $1,000 or spending $1,000 to run newspaper ads or maybe spending $1,000 to buy Google ad words. Let's say for every $1,000 you spend, you bring back $2,000. Let's say your refund rate is 10%.

So we have a $2,000 gross... minus $200 in refunds... and minus $1,000 for the costs of advertising. What you have left then is an $800 contribution to overhead. Not bad.

Now let's add the 30-day hold into that same equation. Here's what will typically happen: You will TRIPLE your response rate. And you will DOUBLE your refund rate. Let's look at the figures again.

We now have a $6,000 gross... minus $1,200 in refunds... and minus $1,000 for the costs of advertising. What you have left then is a $3,800 contribution to overhead. Now I'm not positive about this... but... Sir Gary of Halbert believes...

It Is Better To Have $3,800

Than It Is To Have $800

The math doesn't always work like this. Sometimes adding the 30-day hold will more than triple your gross sales... and not increase your refunds. Sometimes adding the 30-day hold will just double your gross sales... and double your refunds.

Let's see what the numbers look like using the worst of the above cases. Okay, so you double your gross, which now means you take in $4,000 and you double your refund rate (from 10% to 20%) which is $800 in refunds and you still have to subtract the $1,000 for the cost of advertising. That means you've now got $2,200.

Here's another thing that, from my exalted guru status I firmly believe:

$2,800 Is Better Than $800

Now let's take an even worse case scenario. Let's say using the 30-day hold increases your sales by 50% but triples your refund rate. In this case, you will have gross sales of $3,000 minus $900 in refunds minus $1,000 for  advertising. That leaves you with $1,100.

So, as you can plainly see, using dismal figures like this worst case scenario, you still have $1,100... which... at least to my befuddled brain... is better than $800.

Consider this fact: I have been in direct marketing since just before George Washington was elected the first president of the United States. And in all that time, I have never known anyone who used the 30-day hold to go back and start doing business again without the 30-day hold.

Now Why Doesn't Everybody

Use This Powerful Secret?

First of all, most people don't know about it.

Those who do know about it, don't know just HOW POWERFUL this secret is. They have no idea what a HUGE INCREASE using the 30-day hold will make in their bottom-line profits.

There are two more reasons people do not use this technique:

The first is fear. They are irrationally afraid the 30-day hold will cause all (or maybe 70, 80 or 90%) of their customers to return what they are selling and decline to pay for it. To my knowledge, something like this has NEVER happened. I suppose it is remotely possible if you are selling something utterly worthless. But I want to repeat something: I personally have NEVER known anyone who used this 30-day hold without SUBSTANTIALLY INCREASING their bottom-line profits.

Let me pause here a moment to tell you a true story.

There's a man named Melvin Powers who owns Wilshire Books in the Los Angeles area. Years ago he wrote a book about how to become a mail order millionaire. The problem was, Melvin, himself, did not know how to become a mail order millionaire. That's because most of his books were sold through retail outlets. So Melvin hired me to write a full-page newspaper ad for him selling his book. I used a lot of the copy and sales arguments he had already been using in the ad he had created. I changed some of it but the main change was the addition of the 30-day hold.

Melvin refused to test my ad. Melvin demanded his money back.

As you might guess, I told him to go piss up a rope. I'm not going to deal with anyone who thinks their marketing judgment is better than mine. So much so, they won't even test what I've created for them.

Well, it came to pass I was in Melvin's office while he was sitting at his desk almost apoplectic with a red face and veins so swollen, they looked like they were going to rupture and burst. He opened the top left hand drawer of his desk and reached in and grabbed with both hands a bundle of checks. He said, "Damn you Gary! You and your insane crazy idea! Look at this! This is all the bad checks I got using your stupid idea! You are absolutely out of your mind!"

To which I calmly replied, "Mel, let me ask you something. Were the ads that produced all those bad checks profitable?"

"Yes, they were," he replied.

"Well then," I thundered at him...

"You Should Wish You Had A Barn Full Of Those Checks!"

In a newsletter I wrote a long time ago, I talked about a man who sold information books on a COD (Cash On Delivery) basis. I told my readers how he had a 50% non-acceptance rate which meant he was only making $250,000 per week profit!

Try and understand this: The "game" (if you will) of direct marketing is all about psychology and arithmetic. If you understand human psychology (TRULY understand it) and you understand arithmetic... you will make a box car full of fungolas.

If you do not understand these two important elements of direct marketing, you will just limp along making survival money or perhaps no money whatsoever.

End of digression.

Let's get to the second (and last) primary reason people do not use the 30-day hold. It is because they are not well funded.

I'm going to ask you a question and I bet very few of you get the answer right.

You're all aware of the sales letter I wrote of which 600 million were mailed, right? Let's say you wrote a letter today just as strong as the one I wrote lo those many years ago... and... you could mail 600 million of them. Let us say those letters would cost you 70¢ apiece to mail. Here's the question:

How Much Would It Cost You

To Mail Those 600 Million Letters?

Well, let's see: At 70¢ per letter it would seem it would cost you to mail all 600 million letters a grand total of $4.2 million.

Right?

WRONG!

It would cost you approximately only $3,500 to mail all 600 million of those letters. Here's why: You would use your $3,500 to mail 5,000 letters and as the money started coming back from your orders every day, you would "re-invest" the proceeds of that day to mail more letters. In other words, you would be mailing more and more letters every day and soon, you would be compounding your mailings with the speed of light. It wouldn't be long until you would be mailing more letters than your infrastructure could handle.

For example, in the heyday of the family crest promotion, we were using a semi-truck to haul our mail from the Donnelly Corporation in Oakdale, Illinois to the little town of Bath, Ohio where the letters were actually mailed. We did this because we thought having the Bath, Ohio postmark was an important element in the success of our promotion. But here's the deal: We had to truck those letters TWICE a week because the Bath, Ohio post office only had enough room to hold one semi-truckload of mail at a time.

Now let's suppose I had been using the 30-day hold on that promotion. It would have taken us a lot longer to mail those 600 million letters. That's because, instead of using every day's receipts to be able to afford to pay for the stamps, etc. needed to mail more letters, we could only increase our mailings once a month after we were able to cash the checks (people didn't use credit cards back then) we would have agreed to hold for 30-days.

Now I'm going to make an assumption. I am going to assume you are not filthy rich. Let's also assume you have a promotion which is already profitable and you know it would be a LOT MORE profitable if you could afford to use the 30-day hold secret I have just explained. So what you need is money. Where are you going to get it? Try going to a bank, finance company, mortgage and loan company, or a credit union, and explaining why you need a large amount of money. Try telling them you need the money because you have a hot mail order promotion which will make even more money if you could use the 30-day hold technique.

They Will Laugh You Out Of Their Office!

Lending institutions in America only lend large amounts of money to people who have tangible assets. If you have a home worth $10,000,000 they will probably lend you a few million if they can use your home as collateral. But believe it or not, homes, real estate, and other tangible assets are not the best collateral a lender could have.

The very best collateral is the type Las Vegas casinos have. In other words, Las Vegas casinos always have the odds in favor of the house. That means if 10 million people go to Las Vegas and wager a billion dollars, the casinos know precisely to the 20th decimal point how much profit they will make from those gamblers.

Basically what the casinos in Las Vegas are doing are taking bets from people who are betting against the sun coming up tomorrow.

What you want to do in this life is everything possible to put the odds on your side. Once you get the odds on your side, if you are anything other than a pathetic loser, you will go full-steam ahead.

Now let's talk about all those hard money lenders who won't consider helping anyone with a loan unless the would-be borrower has hard assets (preferably real estate) to use as collateral. What if you were able to spend some time with these guys and after talking to a couple hundred of them you found a few with half a brain? And you explained to them how they could get a lot more bang for their buck by investing in reputable, reliable and ethical direct marketing promotions. And suppose one of these guys decided to financially back your direct marketing endeavors. For this he would receive a return of 10% monthly on the money he had lent to you. That would be a bonanza for him. He would be making about 800% more per year on his money as opposed to the approximate 15% he would be making otherwise.

And, it would be a terrific deal for you also.

Let's go back to the way the 30-day hold most typically works. It is common for this technique to triple your results and double your refunds. In the first illustration I gave in this newsletter, it increased your contribution to overhead from $800 to $3,800.

Now suppose the $1,000 in advertising came from your savvy lender instead of out of your own pocket. And suppose you would pay him 10% per month (that's $100 for those of you who are really brain dead). Therefore, by using outside financing, you would have decreased your contribution to overhead from $3,800 to $3,700.

What this means for you who are mathematically savvy is, by using the 30-day hold, you would have decreased your profits from 475% greater than you would have without the 30-day hold... all the way down to... only 422% greater.

It's A Win-Win-Win-Win Situation

For Everybody Involved!

The question is, where do you find these direct marketing savvy deep pocket lenders?

I have a great relationship with a few of these men and they will be attending my Orlando and my Los Angeles "Root Canal" seminars the first part of December.

It will cost you $897 to attend one of these seminars. And if you act immediately... RIGHT NOW... you can bring one guest with you at no additional cost. The deadline for you to be able to attend one of these seminars and bring an extra guest free of charge is Monday, October 31... which is...

Only Four Days Away!

UPDATE: 2015 This Seminar Is Now Complete

You Can Order The Recordings By Clicking Here
(Please excuse the crude sales page but your order is completed on Paypal's Secure Website & the recordings are in stock)

If you have any questions you can write us

kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com

Therefore, I strongly suggest if you seriously want to improve your financial situation, you sign up within minutes of reading this newsletter. 

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S. UPDATE 2015

The Recordings of the Root Canal Seminar are now available

 

1) If you want to use PayPal:

a) Go to www.PayPal.com

b) Click the "Send Money" tab

c) The email address you want to send money to is "halbertising@gmail.com"

d) The amount to send is $397.

e) In the "Subject" section put "Root Canal Seminar"

 

Peace.

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Happy To Be Alive!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2005/10-25-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

In this issue, my plan was to write about my most powerful... yet little-known marketing secret.

My plan has been interrupted by Hurricane Wilma.

As you undoubtedly know, Hurricane Wilma broke several records. It was the most powerful hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic Ocean. It sat over the Yucatan peninsula and battered those people for more than 24-hours. Then it raced toward Florida coming ashore on the west coast near Everglades City. It raced across the Florida peninsula and hit the east coast of Florida in the Miami/Ft. Lauderdale vicinity.

This path was predicted. What surprised all of us living here in south Florida was how strong "she" was when Wilma got to Miami. Hurricane Wilma hit here as a full scale Category 3 hurricane and has massively disrupted our lives. I didn't have power to write you this newsletter until about 5 minutes ago. I still don't have water. And several million people across the State of Florida... especially here in the south including Miami... don't have electricity or water.

I can't think of anything witty or clever to say about all this. I'm too numb.

This hurricane season has already had two more named storms than ever before... and... we have an entire month to go before it's over.

I will say this, my two December seminars are still a "go".

I want to ask you a favor. That favor is...

Please Be Patient

If I owe you a piece of writing. If I haven't answered your email. If I haven't returned your phone call. Please understand that myself (and most of the people here in South Florida) are operating under very difficult circumstances.

You've heard it before but it's worth saying again:

Want To Make God Laugh?

Just Tell Him Your Plans!

I know a lot of you want to know if I'm okay and want to wish me the best of luck. I really appreciate that. But I would ask you don't email me (at NoSexGary@aol.com) messages to that effect. At least for the next couple of weeks. Everything here is extremely fragile and the slightest overloading of anything running on electricity can cause our lights to go out, our computers to shut down, and even our televisions and radios to turn off. We'll get through this rather quickly. It was nothing like Hurricane Katrina. And nothing like what the people in the Yucatan experienced due to Hurricane Wilma.

Anyway, since I can't think of anything witty, slick or clever to say, I'm just going to end this newsletter and thank you in advance for your patience and understanding.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S. Ocala (where Theresa does most of the things necessary to keep my business afloat) is unharmed. I tell you that in case you want to sign up for my "Root Canal" Seminars to be held in December in Orlando and then Los Angeles. Her contact information is:

 

UPDATE: 2015 This Seminar Is Now Complete

You Can Order The Recordings By Clicking Here
(Please excuse the crude sales page but your order is completed on Paypal's Secure Website & the recordings are in stock and you can start listening to the first day instantly while we ship you the complete set)

If you have any questions you can write us

kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com

 

Peace.

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## I Told You So!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2005/09-27-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Remember my very recent newsletter in the envelope titled "Operation Moneysuck"?

And remember how I told you in that newsletter, if you are in the direct marketing business, your merchant account is the weakest link in your chain of success?

Well, that newsletter prompted an almost immediate reply from one of my readers. He gave me permission to reproduce his email in my newsletter on the condition I would keep his name and contact information private.

Here's his email:

 

 

Hi Gary,

I just read your letter about the difficulties in obtaining a merchant  account for a direct response business. I don't know when you wrote this, but my discovery of your message could not have been more timely. Here's why:

On August 30, I launched a new business {website URL was here} and lined up some seriously big affiliate partners for the initial launch. Sales took off like mad. My merchant account provider did not like this one bit, and held my funds pending further investigation. Apparently $90k in sales in about 5 days by a 24 year old with marginal credit scared the crap out of them.

I was jerked around by various incompetent morons for days while my insanely profitable business was withering, unable to accept payments. Eventually, they notified me that they did not want to do business with me and would be closing my account, and holding my money for 9 months.

The reason: "They do not support my 'business type.'"

In a desparate move I switched over to Paypal, but they killed me after only about another $20k in orders.

I actually now have my Paypal account back but I'm afraid to do any decent volume at all, and I have told all of my affiliate partners to back off. (A great message to send - "Hey, don't make us money! Stop it!")

For the past three weeks I have been talking to countless people who supposedly specialize in "high risk" and "high volume" merchant accounts yet can't seem to get anything together. US, UK, offshore, the whole nine yards. I've submitted (quite literally) hundreds of pages of bullshit forms, photocopies, paperwork and questionnaires to various banks and stupid brokers.

This business can and will do *at least* $500k+ per month in sales when I have a solid merchant bank to back it up and I can actually start promoting the damn thing.

The money faucet is ready to be turned on, but it's hell finding someone to process the credit cards. The whole business and product is totally, 100%, absolutely legit. I'm selling turnkey websites at $497 a pop that allow people to make money by (very ironically) getting people to apply for credit cards. They get a completely designed credit card directory website all set up and ready to go out of the box, and they earn $40 to $50 for every credit card application that gets filled out through their site.

The sales letter is converting like mad: 2% conversion ratio on a $500 product (using some techniques I learned from you by the way - thanks.)

Check it out: {website URL was here}

Anyway Gary, clearly I'm looking for your "goldmine" credit card guy. So if what I've said has at all gotten your interest in giving me "The Halbert Seal Of Approval", get in touch with me as soon as you can.

 

 

Hey Cupcake, how do you like them apples? This man's situation is NOT unusual. If you are in direct marketing in a significant way, I can almost promise...

This Will Happen To You!

I don't care if you've had a merchant account in good standing for 30 years. I don't care if you are the mayor of the town you live in. I don't care if you're such a lily-white citizen you've never had a parking ticket. It WILL happen to you.

All I'm saying is, do the best you can to get ready for it. Do the best you can to cover your ass. It might be a smart thing for you to do to read my newsletter "Operation Moneysuck" again.

And now, on a happier note, I'm going to reproduce another email I received which tends to illustrate my son, Bond, truly does have more wisdom than his father. (The little shit is not as smart as his old man... but... he does have more wisdom.) Here's another email I received from another of my newsletter readers:

 

 

Gary,

You told us to personally help Katrina's victims in addition to  donating to charities.  Just so you know, your son's story inspired  me.  Last week, I read this story of the University of New Orleans  women's swim team and how they lost everything.  When I read their  story, I determined I would help; therefore I contacted their coach.   They needed running shoes (among many other needs),  so I brokered a  donation from my athletic company to her team (to be blunt, I was  prepared to dip into my own pocket if I wasn't able to work it out).

It was a no-brainer; it was easy to help.  I told the coach because  she needed something specific, athletic-related, and because I was  able to help, I was more than willing to do so.  Others can donate  whatever, like canned goods (which is important), but who do you know  KNOWS that you work where you work for a reason, at the right place  at the right time?

Gary, one girl got problems with her student visa and customs and  such.  She was just thankful to be in America even though she lost  EVERYTHING.  The coach told me another only had flip-flops.  Can you  imagine that?  Another was fixing to go back to her home country, but  her mom said America offers her hope; therefore she should stay.  All but one are freshman; they're just kids and they have to grow up so  fast.  Did you (I ask this in the general-sense, not specific) ever  face any trials like this when you were 18?  How could I say no to them?

Well, I wanted to let you know personally how easy it is to make an  impact on others when all it took was NOT throw money at the problem and hope it doesn't go away, but just creatively and  thoughtfully  impacting others.  Gary, these girls could still use help, so let me  know...

Sincerely,

Jason

 

 

Okay, I know this is a short newsletter but I had to get it out fast because... believe it or not... I've got a big day ahead of me. You know what I get to do today?

I Get To Go Have A Root Canal Done!

One last thing, this is my second newsletter of this week. The first one went on this website yesterday was about the "Gary Halbert Seal Of Approval". Don't be a dummy, make sure you've read both these issues.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S. I now really do believe when it comes to charity, it should be given out from human to human. NOT human to government to human. NOT human to organization to human. But, plain old human to human. Person to person. If you want to help people, find a specific person, family or group and go give your money or whatever else you're giving DIRECTLY to them.

 

By the way, I recently read an article about how the huge amount of money the Red Cross has received in the last month has paralyzed that organization.

 

To hell with everything. I'm going to go get my pain.

 

Peace.

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The BIG Website Profit Making Secret

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/ac_tape_pitch.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

If you read just the first 2 pages of this letter, you will learn a secret that will probably... make you rich!

If you read the other 18 pages, you will learn about other secrets... that... (if you choose to use them) can make you more money than any sane person can possibly spend!

Why am I sending you this information? Well, a short time ago, you read a message from me (delivered to you by the magic of the Internet)... and... that message said:

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Have you ever wondered if I tell all my marketing secrets in my newsletters and at my seminars? Actually... I do not.

But, I have decided to reveal to some of you perhaps my most important secret to making huge profits. Nobody has ever told you about this... because...

Nobody Else Knows About It!

There's just one catch. I cannot reveal this secret online. I have to send it to you via snail mail.

If you've been reading my newsletters for any length of time, I think you know by now, I never misuse your e-mail address. Nor do I let anyone else use your e-mail address for any reason whatsoever. By the same token, if you give me your snail mail address, it will be safe with me. I will consider it as sacred as I do your e-mail address.

And, as soon as you give me your snail mail address, I will mail you a letter containing this huge secret you can use to make tons of money. And, I will reveal this secret...

For Free!

Like I said, you will never get this piece of information from anybody else. Nobody else knows it. So, if you are interested, simply e-mail me your name and snail mail address to my personal e-mail address which is NoSexGary@aol.com. By the way, in the "Subject Line" of your e-mail to me, please write "Snail Mail Address" so I won't mistake your e-mail for spam and delete it without reading it.

Thanks for reading this rather long message.

Sincerely,          

 

 

Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S	This is, without doubt, the most profitable thing you will ever learn about how to increase website profits.




Remember that message? I'm sure you do. And, you did your part. You trusted me with your "snail mail" address. And now, it's time for me to live up to my end of the bargain. So, follow along as I reveal the secret I promised you...

Suppose you have a website and you sell something on that site. Let's say that (so far) you have sold whatever it is you are selling to 10,000 people. And now, you've come up with another product your 10,000 customers might be interested in. So, you write a sales pitch and you send it to your customers.

You decide to send 5,000 of your customers your sales pitch by e-mail... and... the other 5,000 customers the same sales pitch by snail mail. Will it make a difference?

Here is what will happen: Whatever amount of orders you get from your 5,000 e-mails, you will get...

20 Times More
Orders From Your
Snail Mail !

That means, if you get 15 orders from your e-mail "mailing"... you will get... 300 orders from your 5,000 snail mail mailing.

Take a moment to think about how important that is.

Let's say your product is a book you sell for $37.00. The 15 orders from your e-mail pitch would bring in $555.00. Of course, it didn't cost you a dime to "mail" any of those 5,000 e-mail pitches either. And, it didn't cost you a dime to fill your orders either since all you had to do was send your customers an e-mail with an attachment containing the e-book.

So, since you can "mail" your pitch and deliver your book for free over the Internet, your net profit is the same as your gross profit. Namely...

$555.00

But now, let's take a look at the numbers from those 5,000 snail mail pitches you sent out. Since you got 20 times as many orders, you ended up selling 300 books. At $37.00 apiece, you took in $11,100. Oh, but wait... sending out those 5,000 snail mails was NOT free. You had to pay approximately 70¢ to mail each one of them. That cost you $3,500.00 to physically mail out those 5,000 snail mail sales letters.

And, it gets worse. You actually had to pay to fulfill all those 300 books too. Let's say it costs about $3.00 apiece to fulfill those orders. Damn, that's another $900.00 you had to shell out.

Therefore, with the cost of the mailing ($3,500) and the cost of fulfilling those 300 book orders ($900) you had to spend a big fat $4,400.00. That's so sad.

Because, when you deduct those $4,400 expenses from the $11,100 you took in... well...

Your
Net Profit
Is... "Only"
$6,700.00!

And, just in case you don't have a calculator handy, that means your snail mail produced...

More Than 12 Times
As Much Profit...
As The "Free" E-Mail !

This is NOT an exaggeration. These numbers are typical.

You see, there are SO MANY "spam filters" between you and the person you are attempting to send your e-mail to, fewer and fewer of your messages are being delivered every day. And, even IF your email message did get delivered, the chances are very high your message will be deleted by the person you sent it to. And, even IF your e-mail got delivered, opened and read, it probably wouldn't be believed.

Study after study has shown people just plain, flat-out DON'T believe almost any of the e-mails they receive.

On the other hand, there are no "spam filters" between you and the person you are attempting to send your snail mail letter to. And, when your letter is delivered, the chances are very high your message will be opened. And, when your letter got delivered, opened and read, it probably would be believed. You see, study after study has shown...

Snail Mail Has A
2,000% To 12,000% Higher
"Believability Factor" Than E-Mail !

What you have just read is the biggest unknown secret to making huge website profits.

And, I know many other website profit secrets nobody else knows about. One such secret is...

How To Run Full-Page
Newspaper Ads Promoting
YourWebsite... 100% Free!

In fact, at the risk of ruining my reputation for modesty, I am going to make a rather bold statement...

I Now Honestly Believe
I Know More About How To
Increase The Profit Of AWebsite
Than Anyone Else On Earth!

I'm not kidding. I really do believe that is an accurate statement. Here's a true story: I was visited recently by a man named Ed Dale from Australia. (He has since moved to England.) Ed is one of those very rare people who started a profitable dot.com company and then... SOLD IT FOR CASH... at the peak of the frenzy. Then, Ed took the cash from the sale of his dot.com company and made some shrewd investments and even shrewder business decisions. And so, his fortune has now multiplied to double digit millions.

Ed has now started to create websites and has set out to learn everything he can about how to make those websites more profitable. He told me recently every marketing book he has read, every audio or video tape he has listened to or watched, every seminar he has attended, all pointed him to me, Sir Gary of Halbert, as the best copywriter and direct marketer online today.

Naturally, I would be the last to deny that... so... when Ed rang me up on the "blower" (that's Australian meaning 'he called me on the phone') I invited him to visit me in Miami. I learned a lot about Ed during our visit. One of the things I learned about him is, he always attempts to seek out and then work with only the very top people in their chosen fields of expertise. Another (of many) things I learned was Ed had five operating websites... and... each of those websites was as different from each other as they could possibly be.

I'm listing them for you here:

 	
www.massaagetherapysuccess.com


www.weddingplanningsecrets.com


www.troutfishingsecrets.com


www.pianoisfun.com


www.fraps.com

That's quite a unique mixture of websites, wouldn't you agree? I can't imagine how any five websites could be more different in content than those five are from each other.

Anyway, Ed and I chatted for a bit and then I told him about how I know more about increasing website profits than anyone else in the world. And, we made a dinner bet. The bet was, I could show him how to make a simple change to each of his websites which would exponentially increase his profits... immediately... on each of the sites. If I failed, I'd owe him dinner. If I won, he'd owe me dinner. I also told him this was only one of about a dozen website profit breakthroughs I had made...

And Nobody Else In The World
Knows About Them!

Let us mush on: Ed returns to Australia and makes the change I told him to make to all five of his websites. Soon, he calls me: "Well mate, it looks like I owe you a dinner!”

"Why is that?” I asked, "did my suggestion work out for you?”

"Work out? Are you daft, mate? What you told me to do increased the profitability of every one of my five websites... immediately! The lowest profit increase was 300% and the highest was about 1,000%!” (NOTE: I'll bet you a dollar to a donut that anybody who visits those sites will not be able to detect the profit-making secret I had Ed incorporate in them. It's something so sophisticated... even though it's elegantly simple... it's invisible to almost everybody.)

Anyway, I then reminded him this was only one of about a dozen secrets I have developed to increase website profitability. And, that if he would come to my Miami seminar (the one I just finished), he could learn the other secrets.

What Ed did amazed me...

First, he moved from Australia to London to be closer to me and the United States. Then, he DID attend my seminar... and... he was one of the guest speakers.

Ed Dale and I have now made a business arrangement. I am no longer for hire as a copywriter. I won't take on a single client. All I'm going to do from now on is work with Ed, keep writing my newsletter and, finish up a few unfinished marketing chores I owe a few people.

By the way, this seminar had fewer attendees than any other seminar I have ever given since I started writing my newsletter back in 1986. It was kept very small deliberately because my #1 Trusty Assistant Theresa couldn't be there to help me. She is now living with her dying father and is serving him as his primary caregiver.

So, to keep the seminar small, I only notified a fraction of my readers about it. And, it turns out, a lot of those I did notify were struggling with the loss of their homes and/or businesses caused by Hurricane Isabel. Others lucky enough not to lose their physical structures, had to deal with the loss of their electricity, phone service, computer access, fax lines, etc.

I actually had more website experts to help me with the seminar than I had seminar attendees. So, you know what we did? We gave each attendee a great deal of personal attention which would have been impossible under any other circumstances. And, we had the luxury of making this the most informative, useful, personal... and... intense... Internet/website seminar in all of recorded history.

For example, I had every single attendee tell me all about his or her website or, the website they were getting ready to put on the web. Then, I told every one of them... in exact detail... what they could do to improve the profitability of their website.

I told a few of them they should change the product they were selling. You see, many people believe the Internet is SO BIG, you can use it to sell anything. That's not true. Not if you want to make really BIG profits. If you want to make really serious money on the Internet, you have to limit yourself to a surprisingly small category (percentage-wise) of products or services you offer for sale on your site.

As I write this, I have at my side, a folder telling me (in rank order) the top 10,000 websites in the world. If your website is not among the top 10,000 sites, you are not making really, really serious money with your website. You might be making what you consider a lot but, you will be missing out on the truly humongous fungolas you could be raking in. So, one of the most important secrets Irevealed at my seminar was...

How To Select A Product Or Service That...
When Sold Via The Internet... Will...
Almost Guarantee You Make HUGE Profits!

And, why not? It costs the same amount of time and energy to sell a really profitable product or service as it does to create and maintain a site which only makes peanuts.

So, let's say you are selling one or more of those hugely-profitable products or services on your website. What is the first thing you should pay a lot of attention to? I am literally amazed no one else teaches this! Can you guess what it is?

It's The NAME
Of YourWebsite!

Come closer. Pay attention here. Everybody in marketing with even half-a-brain knows the HEADLINE is the most important part of any ad. And, don't you get it that when it comes to websites... the NAME of your site... IS is the headline?!

People pay thousands and thousands to get the top position when someone types a search phrase into a search engine which relates to what they are selling.

So, there they are, right in the top ten results of a website search... with... a few poorly written sentences describing their site (written in blue) and the name of their website hidden at the bottom of the few lines of copy describing their site.

Know this: Burn it into your mind: Those first few sentences which describe your site... plus... the actual NAME of your site are, by far...

The Most Important Words
On Your Entire Website!

Look, when people type a search word or a search phrase into a search engine, they do NOT necessarily click on the sites which pop up in the first three or four results. No. What they do is, they glance down the list of those top ten sites and read the brief descriptions of each site... and... the name of each website.

The one they really click on first (and you DO want it to be yours) is the one with the most enticing copy describing the website... and... the most enticing website name.

It's like they are glancing at headlines in a newspaper to see what stories they want to read. And, most website descriptive copy and website names seem to have been written by marketing imbeciles. Listen, these words are, by far, the most important words on your entire website. More thought and effort should go into these few lines of descriptive copy (and name) of your website than everything else that is on your site... combined! It's so simple, I feel like I'm writing to morons that I even have to explain it... but... I'm going to explain it anyway...

If The Few Lines Of Descriptive Copy About YourWebsite
(And The Name Of YourWebsite) Are NOT Written To Grab
A Great Deal Of Immediate Attention... Nobody... Will Click
On The Link And Read YourWebsite... And... Therefore...
NOBODY WILL BUY ANYTHING FROM YOU!

I don't know how to make it any clearer. If you cannot understand the obvious truth of what I have just written, you are truly beyond all hope.

Now, for many of you, I am going to make your day.

I suspect what I am going to write next is going to put smiles on the faces of people all over the world.

Remember how I wrote a few newsletters ago about how I was NOT going to be selling the tapes of my Internet/website seminar? I was not lying to you. Not intentionally anyway.

But, when I got to the seminar, I was pulled aside by my good friend Carlos Duran and, he told me he had made arrangements for the hotel (The Embassy Suites) to audio tape the entire seminar. He told me he wanted to have tapes of the event, even if it was just for archival reasons. What the heck? I didn't see how it could hurt anything. And then, something strange happened: About one-third of the way through the seminar, I realized this was turning out to be the best seminar on how to make website profits in all of history.

And so, I have decided I will sell the tapes. Not only that, I made another decision:

I Made The Decision
To Sell The Tapes At A
Dirt-Cheap, Low Price!

This presented me with a particular problem. Here I was, standing in front of a small group of people who had paid nearly $6,000 to attend my seminar plus all their hotel and travel expenses. And, three of these people had come all the way from Singapore. Do you know how much it costs to fly round trip from Singapore? I just looked it up. It's somewhere in the vicinity of $3,000.00 or more.

Maybe some of the attendees would not have come to the seminar... if... they had known in advance they would be able to buy the tapes... and especially... if they knew the dirt-cheap price I was going to charge for the tapes.

But, there was no way they could have known any of that because... I didn't know I was going to do this myself. So, I decided to make a little "pitch" to the attendees. This is what I said:

"Look, this is turning out to be a truly spectacular seminar. So spectacular, in fact, I want to share it with the world by selling the audio tapes of this event. But, I can see how many of you would resent that after paying so much to be here in person. So, I want to make a deal with you.

"First, I will give you some secret website techniques for making profits that I had already decided I wasn't going to share with anybody.

"Secondly, right here and right now, I will change the agenda of this seminar so I can go over everybody's website and tell you personally and individually how to immediately increase the profits of your site.

"And, if that's not enough, I will give you the right to call me about any of your website problems for the next 18-months and I will do my best to help you... without any charge!”

Everybody in that room LOVED my proposal. So, guess what? If you want to, you are going to be able to buy the tapes... and... you are going to be able to buy them at far less than what my seminar attendees had to pay. I have reasons for doing this and I will explain those reasons at the end of this letter.

But now, for the first time in my life, I'm going to do something I've never done before. Instead of me writing a sales letter to entice you to buy the tapes of this seminar... I'm going to let my attendees do it for me!

Dear Gary,

I realized what I hate most: Flying in an airplane for 20 hours. But if you are going to put on another seminar with a $5,000 price tag, guess what? I would still go on a dumb plane and fly 20 hours to attend another of your seminars! Here is why:

I learned about a drug (which was completely unknown to me) that quite possibly, will make me a million dollars within the next 24-months.
I learned your secret on how to (at least) double my website profits.
I got to meet some great minds in marketing.
I learned how to place ads in newspapers at a huge discount off rate cards.
I just learned about the most important thing I can ever do for my business.

I've read in your newsletter, "much of what I say is timely, but much of what I
say is also timeless." And what I learned in this Internet seminar is timeless.

 	

Terry Ryan
Singapore

 

Dear Gary,

As a long time reader of "The Gary Halbert Letter," I thought I had an idea of what to expect from your seminar.

Boy, was I wrong!

On Day 1, I received at least two ideas that I put into action... THAT SAME NIGHT!

Day 2 taught me more about copywriting by listening to real-world critiques than I ever had listening to tapes or reading books.

Day 3 is where the money is for my business. I learned one strategy to use in my Internet marketing efforts that will GUARANTEE a 500% increase in my business. I want to thank you for allowing John Reese the opportunity to share this tactic.

In all, I am walking away from this experience a wiser man. My gratitude for this cannot be expressed in words.

 	

Bill Kent
Houston, Texas

 

Dear Gary,

I got turned onto you when I was 23 years old. I'm now 25 and have made over One Hundred Thousand Dollars using the insider secrets given to me by you. After this Internet seminar, I'm ready to make 5 million dollars in the next two years.

The future of making money on the Internet has just had the door blown off it... and... you are leading the charge behind the captain's chair of an MA1 mobile tank fleet. Thanks Gary for giving my finances air in a world drowning with money problems.

 	

Denise Cantaloni
Miami, FL

 

Dear Gary,

I've been to many of your seminars. However, this one was by far the best! After having read at least a dozen books alleging to teach me how to make money with a website, your course this weekend taught more proven, simple and workable keys to actually DOING that (and easily) than all those books combined! This knowledge could be worth a literal fortune in Internet profits for most anyone who applies it. Thank you so very much.

 	

Mark Gordon
Seattle, WA

 

Dear Gary,

As experienced Internet marketers, my team and I didn't come to this workshop looking for the basics... but... came for those unexpected points of view (your hallmark) which spawns two or three important new ideas. You gave us five or six. As always, your workshops deliver.

 	

Gerald Ledford
Albuquerque, NM

 

Dear Gary,

Your Internet/website seminar was phenomenal!

I'm just starting out in the Internet/website business and your seminar provided me all of the essential tools to make money in the Internet... including how to write a winning sales letter, secrets to setting up a profitable website and much, much more.

Within the next ten days, I'll have my website making money... and I'll be on
my way to a very successful Internet business. Thanks a million.

 	

Robert Brown
Boston, MA

 

Dear Gary,

"Thank you" seems thin... what I want is something that has more muscle... something with "heft"... something... something GRAND! What do you say to someone who has been so generous... not only with the invitation... but with the presentation?

People have asked me, 'was it worth it?' I tell them that I saw someone who was tops in his field deliver with total generosity everything he had. I had the privilege to be in the room with his peers, to be treated as one of them! "What? WHAT? Was it worth it? Are you NUTS?" I say, "OF COURSE IT WAS WORTH IT! Those three days have changed my life. What I learned is multi-layered, and it will be percolating through my being for a long time as I digest the content."

Really, "thank you", (as well meaning as it is) does not say what I feel. The only thing I can think to do is, "do" what you taught. To go out there and work and someday say, "Gary Halbert taught me that." I just want to live up to the opportunity you gave us.

My friend, Jackie, who had no thought of marketing anything is now fired up and ready to go. In changing my life, you have inadvertently changed hers. NOW... there is the greatest gift of all.

Really Gary, you are the guru of words... What Can I Say? Muchicimas Gracias! Vaya con Dios! Just know, you will always be there until the last beat of my heart. Darn, I always seem to get mushy even though I don't want to... I'll have to work on that.

 	

Bernice Edwards
Portland, OR

 

Dear Gary,

I have learned more about making money online in three days with you... than... I have the past four years paying through the nose following the so-called Internet gurus.

 	

Naomi Walker
Farmingdale, NY

 

Dear Gary,

I have gained invaluable insights on copywriting in this seminar. And your simple tips on how to make my website more profitable will definitely work!

 	

Toni Yong
Singapore

 

Dear Gary,

This has been the most beneficial seminar I have ever attended. I have learned so many tips and strategies for marketing...

My Brain Is Throbbing!

The seminar was excellent in itself but, talking to the other attendees was like participating in mini-seminars and mentoring by experts in the field.

This seminar has been a giant "payback" for all the good deeds I have done in my life.

 	

Jackie Gibson
Portland, OR

 

Dear Gary,

I came to your seminar hoping to walk away with one really good idea. Instead, I am walking away with... 43 incredibly great ideas!

 	

Lorenzo Vaughn
Toronto, Canada

 

Dear Gary,

I've attended many of your seminars over the years. The truth is, this web seminar was the very best to anyone serious about making their fortune on the web. Without the tapes, they are almost guaranteed to fail. With them... the only way anyone can fail is... if they don't listen to them!

 	

Terry Ryan
Singapore

 

Dear Gary,

I have a background in anthropology... which means... I have almost no knowledge of marketing. After attending your seminar, my learning curve has skyrocketed.

 	

Anita Kirkpatrick
Phoenix, AZ

 

Dear Gary,

Thanks for all the copywriting tips. Especially the secrets you shared about bullets, headlines, the best time and place to write copy, and the one secret that was worth the cost of the seminar... what special process we should use to accept orders that will double our orders.

Automatically include my name for sign up at your next seminar. Oh, and would you do me a favor? Please, please, please, do not make tapes of this seminar available to the public.

 	

Gary McClure
Jacksonville, FL

 

Dear Gary,

No one can show you how direct marketing techniques can be used to make tons of money on the Internet better than you, Sir Gary of Halbert.

 	

Geoffrey Allen
Albuquerque, NM

 

Dear Gary

Finding the real thing in a world which has learned to accept the "fair" copy as the norm is a mind expanding experience. To me, Gary Halbert really "is" the man he is reputed to be. Your presentation is sharp and to the point. You condense the most pertinent points into the time allotted without crowding the ideas. You give individual attention without demeaning the questioner. As a teacher, you have the gift to communicate in a way the student can learn. I am taking the lessons learned back with me in the full confidence I can use them to remake my business life. I will be at your next seminar and I will continue to read your newsletters for the best nuggets I know are there. Quite simply, YOU ARE THE BEST!

 	

Bonita Evans
Los Angeles, CA

 

Dear Gary,

I walked into your seminar a little nervous... I was a true web virgin.

But now, I have all the tools I need to set up a profitable website including... how to find a profitable product to sell... how to set up a search page... how to test the site to see if it will be profitable (and for less than $195!)... and how to craft a compelling sales letter to put on the site!

Thanks for everything. You gave me a heck of a lot more than I expected!

 	

George Cochran
Tampa, FL

 

Dear Gary,

I expected to learn enough to get me off to a jump start but, with just a couple of your ideas... on the first day... I realized that I'm better than I thought I was! And when the best in the world says, "That's damn good copy," that gives me an incredible amount of confidence.

I was also glad to get the technical expertise of John Reese. Your addition of John to the line-up made this experience a complete package for me.

I know now that I got more out of your seminar than I could have imagined, let alone expected.

 	

Gill Thompson
Minneapolis, MN

 

Dear Gary,

Even if anyone finds your website extremely helpful (as I do) they gotta hear you! Some of the things you reveal are tested and proven... but are so cuttingedge and counter-intuitive... that they have to hear the questions, the objections, and the reasons why.

Your comments about the ordering process are profound, and just as I describe above.

 	

Robert Jones
Boston, MA

 

Dear Gary,

Firstly, a big thank you! I am so glad that I flew 20 plus hours from Singapore to attend this seminar.

Many things I learned can be implemented immediately... which... I am sure will boost my revenue tremendously. This is the most value-added seminar I have attended so far.

I will definitely want to be at your next seminar.

 	

Lee Canton
Singapore




As you've just read, all 20 people who attended my seminar thought it was worth its weight in gold. But, truth be told, I didn't pull it off alone. The other speakers included Carlos Duran about how you should not work merely to increase the size of your bank account, but that... also... your work should be something you care passionately about. He also made the very valuable point about how you should put the same amount of passion you do into making money into your family and your health. Plus, he explained how, when he first met me three years ago, he was a personal trainer struggling to make the rent... and how... his association with me (he lives right here in Miami) has changed his personal and financial circumstances enormously for the better.

Another of my speakers was "Doberman Dan" Gallapoo who lives in the Escazu section of San Jose, Costa Rica. He actually lives within walking distance of 70% of the online sports betting casinos in the entire world. Online betting is legal in Costa Rica and, it pisses off the United States government to no end. Earlier this year, the U.S. government tried to shut down the online casinos by making it almost impossible for U.S. citizens to use their credit cards to place their bets. The U.S. government has NOT succeeded in this endeavor but, for a while, they put a real hurting on all the online casinos. So, what the casinos did was to get creative and discovered several ingenious ways to get money from people who can't use a credit card. You never know: Maybe one day something negative will happen to your merchant account and you will no longer have the ability to process credit cards... so... one of these options that Dan reveals at my seminar (which was discovered by the online sports books) could, quite literally...

Save Your Business!

Dan also revealed a "connection" to someone who may (for real) be able to solve any merchant account problems you might be having.

Another guest speaker was Joachim DePosada. Joachim (pronounced Wa-keem) is my all-time favorite public speaker. He once gave me what I consider the most important piece of business advice I ever got in my entire life. (You'll hear me discuss it when you listen to the seminar tapes.)

Joachim travels all over the world and teaches Fortune 500 companies the REAL secrets a person needs to know to become successful. He has written a new book called, "How To Survive The Piranhas" and I am honored he has included an entire section about me in it. He practically gives this book away compared to what it's worth. Find it on the 'net and get yourself a copy.

And then, as I mentioned previously, Ed Dale also spoke at my seminar. Ed is one of those people who really pisses me off... because... he not only makes tons of money... he KEEPS it! (This is a trick I've never learned.) Anyway, Ed explained all the secrets he uses to make website profits to my attendees. And, I can say with 100% honesty, what you will hear him reveal on my seminar tapes is so incredibly valuable, you should hide your head in shame if you don't use what he teaches to make more money than any sane person can possibly spend!

And remember in the testimonials, how some of my attendees mentioned John Reese? Well, remember at the beginning of this letter I wrote "I Now Honestly Believe I Know More About How To Increase The Profit Of A Website Than Anyone Else On Earth!"? Shit. After meeting and listening to John Reese, I think honesty dictates that, in actuality, that distinction should go to him.

He's one of those guys who, until recently (like John Carlton) has preferred to stay very low profile and under the radar. The rumors I am now hearing about him are that he is the top entrepreneur on the entire Internet. When John (Reese) started talking to my attendees and revealed his secrets, it was like having Tiger Woods taking a personal interest in you, taking you under his wing and teaching you to play golf.

And there you have it. A rather complete description of my latest seminar and what you will learn about making website profits when you listen to those audio tapes. I'm going to tell you how you can get those tapes... and... why I'm selling them... so cheap... in just a moment. But first, I want to discusssomething else.

You know, there's something I've noticed about every successful marketer whenever I have visited them in their houses. I've noticed...

They Are All Information Junkies!

They can't get enough. They are just like me. If you ever visit the home of a truly pro marketer, you'll always find a room dedicated to housing information products he has purchased over the years. Hundreds of books, dozens of sets of audio tapes, box after box of video cassettes, numerous magazinearticles, newspaper articles and EVERYTHING he can get his hands on which might help him be a better marketer. Here's the truth:

The Top Guys Never Think They Know It All...
And... They NEVER Stop Learning!

Anyway, I want to tell you why I'm selling my tapes so cheaply.

First, I didn't know until the last minute I was going to be taping the seminar... and so... a small portion was not captured on the tapes. For example, we started the seminar by having everyone in the room introduce themselves and tell us a little about their businesses. This portion was not caught on the audio tapes.

There are a few other bits and pieces we didn't catch on the tapes... but... we did get just about everything of value... and... the audio is very clear.

Secondly, we did not video tape the seminar which, in my opinion, enhances your learning experience.

Thirdly, you will not be getting the kind of individual attention I was able to give each of the attendees.

And lastly, you will not be eligible for my individual assistance during the next 18-months with your website problems. I made that promise to my attendees... for them... to allow me to sell the tapes of the seminar... and... feel good about allowing me to do so.

OK, as you know, the attendees had to pay $5,985.00 to be at the seminar. They also had to pay all their travel and hotel expenses. That means, in some cases (like the attendees who came from Singapore) they had to shell out over $9,000.00 to be there.

So, here's what I've decided to charge for the audio tapes. Exactly one-tenth (1/10) of the price of the seminar... not counting... hotel and other travel expenses. That means... you can buy these utterlypriceless tapes for only $598.50.

There are several ways you can order these tapes. The first way is to write your check in the amount of $598.50 made payable to "NoMax Publishing" and send it to:

	NoMax Publishing
7510 Sunset Blvd. #1020
Los Angeles, CA 90046

If you do that, we will send the tapes to you immediately by First-Class mail. (By the way, even though Theresa is out of state helping her Dad, there is someone else in Ocala who picks up the mail daily.)

Or, if you prefer to order using a credit card, you can do it by fax or phone. To fax your order, write the words "Seminar Tape Order" on a sheet of paper and fax it to (352) 861-1665 along with the following information:

Your name as it appears on your credit card


Your credit card number


The expiration date


Your BILLING address for that credit card


The 'security code' from your credit card

a) If using Visa or MasterCard, the 'security code' are the last three digits on the BACK of your credit card in your signature panel

b) If using American Express, the 'security code' are the four digits on the FRONT of your credit card above your credit card number


The shipping address where you want the tapes sent

But, like I said, you can also phone in your order. Normally, I'd have you call my office and give your information directly to Theresa. But, since she's not in the office, you can call my voicemail (24-hours a day, 7-days a week). When you call my personal voicemail at (323) 851-8275 you will hear my voice saying:

"Hi, this is Gary Halbert. Thank you for calling to order a copy of my Killer Website Profits seminar tape package. What I need you to do is leave your name and the type of credit card you are using. We accept Visa, MasterCard or American Express. I also need the credit card number, expiration date, security code and the billing address of your credit card. Plus, I need the shipping address where you want the tapes sent. As soon as I have all this information, I will send you the Killer Website Profits seminar tape package. And please, speak slowly and clearly and spell out any unusual words. Thank you again for your order and trusting me enough to order the package in this fashion."

Okay, after you hear my message, you will hear a very brief announcement in a female voice. She will direct you in both English and Spanish to wait for the beep before leaving your message. It is only after her speaking, will you hear the beep and be able to leave your ordering information. So, wait for the beep and do just like I instructed you above and, your Killer Website Profits seminar tape package will be shipped to you within 24-hours.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
 	(temporarily the world's most exhausted guru)


P.S.	

When you listen to these seminar tapes, you will learn more valuable REAL information on how to make website profits than you can get any place else in the world.

I promise.

That's it for now. I'm gonna crank up the "No Mercy" and take a little cruise.

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Operation Moneysuck!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/09-15-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

The vast majority of this newsletter is going to be about "Operation Moneysuck".

Most of you who read this newsletter do so because you are interested in improving your copywriting abilities... or... you are interested in starting or enlarging a direct response business. What I'm going to write in this letter is something you need to think seriously about if you want to make an enormous amount of money in direct response.

If this newsletter turns out to be a bit sloppy, please cut me a little slack as Theresa and I are... once again... working under hurricane conditions courtesy of a bitch named "Rita".

Before I get going on "Operation Moneysuck", I want to thank all of you who responded to my last few newsletters concerning the disastrous circumstances caused by Hurricane Katrina. When I recommended the Jehovah's Witnesses as the best organization to help those victims, I expected to get a lot of flack from my readers. To my surprise, I did not. What I got instead was a lot of people praising my courage to recommend such a controversial, non-mainstream organization.

I believe I got exactly two e-mails bitching about my recommending Jehovah's Witnesses. Both of those e-mails were from individuals who peppered their messages with quotes from the Bible and maintained the Jehovah's Witnesses were nothing more than a cult and didn't believe in mainstream religious dogma.

Just in case any of you are confused, I would like to assure you, I, myself am NOT a Jehovah's Witness. And quite frankly, to be blunt, I don't give a rat's ass about their religious beliefs. In fact, I don't even know what they do believe... and for my money... it makes no difference whatsoever. I'm going to tell you a little story which will illustrate why I feel this way.

Once, a long time ago, I was with my father in a rather un-seaworthy boat attempting to navigate a particularly dangerous part of the ocean. I was very scared. The boat was in serious danger of capsizing. Then I remembered something my father taught me years earlier. He taught me if you are in a boat traveling across dangerous waters, give the controls of that boat to the person onboard who is the most skilled at operating a boat under dangerous conditions. That means you should NOT necessarily give the controls to the owner of the boat... or... to the person who has the highest "rank" on board... or... to the person who has been operating boats for the longest period of time. You should give the controls to the person who is BEST at navigating that boat through dangerous water.

To state the obvious, it shouldn't matter if the person is Black or White, Catholic or Protestant, a midget or 7 feet tall, Republican or Democrat, or what the person believes or thinks about anything. It shouldn't matter if you love or hate the person. And it shouldn't even if the person is in favor of an idea that disgusts you.

All that should matter is, you give the controls of the boat to the person onboard who is the most likely person to get you back to port safely.

So, rather than let my pride go before a fall...

I Gave The Controls Of That Boat

In Those Dangerous Waters

To My Father!

What if you knew of a copywriter who almost always wrote hugely successful direct mail pieces, space ads and/or websites for his clients? Would you care if that copywriter was Black or White, Catholic or Protestant, a midget or 7 feet tall, Republican or Democrat? Or what his or her religious beliefs were?

I think you wouldn't care about any of that. I think you would hire the person who was most likely to write a piece of copy for you which would make you the most money.

I think the same thing is true with about anything else of importance which needs to get done. If you were suffering from a potentially deadly disease, would you care about the skin color or religious beliefs of the doctor who was treating you? I think not. I think if you are sane, you would want the doctor who is most likely to make you well again.

I could go on and on with illustrations such as these but, if you haven't gotten the point already, you are brain dead.

As far as Jehovah's Witnesses are concerned, they have an impeccable record for helping people who've been affected by man made and/or natural disasters superior to any other organization of which I have knowledge. Personally, I think they are obsessed, theologically-misguided individuals who unnecessarily complicate their lives and journey out into the world on Saturday mornings and irritate people who are trying to recover from hangovers.

But, by God, when it comes to stabilizing and repairing after a disaster, THEY are the people who get the job done without stealing any of the money contributed for that purpose.

I think what I'm going to write now will probably surprise you. I think nobody in this country should donate another dime to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina. Not even to the Jehovah's Witnesses. I'll tell you why.

As of now, the total amount of money already been donated or pledged to help those victims is in the untold billions of dollars. Let me tell you something about hundreds of billions of dollars. That amount of money, at least in my opinion, does not exist anywhere on earth in the control of people who are not outright stealing a lot of it... or... who are spending it stupidly. At the very least, if they are not stealing it or spending it stupidly... if there is a gazillion dollars available... the kindest thing you can say (again this is my opinion) is, much of that money will be spent in a very ineffective manner.

I don't think more money needs to be contributed to the victims of Hurricane Katrina. What I think is really needed, is more people with at least half a brain working on the problems created by the disaster. I believe $100 in the hands of a capable, intelligent person will provide more relief for those victims than $10,000 in the hands of a corrupt or ineffective organization. (Like Halliburton.)

But, there is a lot of goodness in the hearts of the people of the world. A lot of us have a genuine feeling of an overwhelming need to do something to help those who have suffered from such a disaster. And, I have an idea I would like to throw out to all of my readers (if for no other reason) than to give you something to think about.

Very recently, I was flying back from a short trip to Costa Rica on American Airlines Flight 972 and I was sitting in seat 11D. Sitting next to me in seat 10D was a woman named Bernadette Lewis. Her husband died of cancer at a very early age. I learned from talking with her a few interesting things.

First, her father-in-law was Sinclair Lewis (now deceased of course), the first American writer to win the Pulitzer Prize. Bernadette is 77 years old. She had just recently moved from France to New Orleans. After she got herself set up in an apartment, she decided to take a trip to Costa Rica to visit her relatives there.

Her return flight from Costa Rica to New Orleans was scheduled for the day Katrina hit New Orleans. Naturally, Bernadette was stuck in Costa Rica and she had to wait quite some time before she could get another return flight. But when she made those new return flight arrangements, it only included her flying to Miami and then to Tampa. She didn't know how (or if) she could return to New Orleans. And, of course, American Airlines charged her extra because of the change in her travel plans.

Bernadette didn't know if her apartment had survived the hurricane. She was hopeful because it was on the second floor of her building. She had a son in New Orleans who had tried to board up his house but was unable to finish the job and forced to evacuate the area by the New Orleans Police. If I remember correctly, her son's house was close to her apartment.

Bernadette told me she had just auctioned off most of her possessions before she ever left New Orleans. She asked me, "They'll have to pay me won't they? After all, my possessions were auctioned off before the hurricane." Apparently, when you work with an auction house, you don't get paid until 30 days after your items have been  sold. But again, she was asking me, "They'll have to pay me, won't they? I mean, after all, my stuff was auctioned off before the hurricane."

I didn't have the heart to point out to her there was a great possibility the auction company no longer existed. That it may very well have been destroyed by Hurricane Katrina.

She told me she didn't mind if people looted her apartment. She said there was nothing to take but furniture and paintings. She didn't think the looters were very much interested in furniture. And she was hopeful they didn't understand the value of her paintings.

In any case, here she was, having survived the horrors of World War II and now (at 77 years of age) trying to survive the horrors of Hurricane Katrina. Bernadette was attempting to return to her home (if it still existed) with very little money and no possessions except what she took with her on her  trip to Costa Rica.

I don't know what has happened to Bernadette Lewis but, if anybody can find her and she needs some help, I would be more than welcome to help her personally to the best of my ability.

Meanwhile, thousands of miles away, my youngest son Bond read in the "Los Angeles Times" some of the evacuees had made it to Los Angeles and were being sheltered there by the Red Cross. So you know what he did? He went directly to the shelter, talked to the people, and found out exactly what they needed. They were most concerned with immediate needs to get them through the next 48 or 72-hours. So Bond made a list and went to store after store buying items like deodorant, diapers, toothbrushes, toothpaste, and lots of other stuff people use on a day-to-day basis.

One curious thing the evacuees asked for was decks of playing cards. This puzzled me at first. Then I got to thinking about it. I guess playing poker or other card games for matchsticks is a better way to get through the day during the aftermath of a disaster... than just staring into space hour after hour and worrying about your future.

Anyway, after he bought all these items, he put them in his truck and drove back to the Red Cross shelter. He gave everything directly to the people who needed it.

I'm enormously proud of my son. He has far more wisdom than his father will ever possess.

The message I've tried to illustrate here is...

If You Want To Help The Victims

Of This Disaster, I Think You Should

Give That Help To The Victims Directly!

I've become jaded. I think the worst organization in this country we can donate money to help people is the United States Government. And, I am very suspect of other major organizations such as the Red Cross, the Salvation Army, Catholic Charities, and all the others. I think each of these charities have many good people... but... I suspect also each of the charities have some bad apples who would embezzle the money entrusted to them without a pang of conscience.

Anyway, I really don't want to receive any more emails about Hurricane Katrina. Most of the emails I did receive were intelligent and well-reasoned and had very good ideas in them. But, I don't even want to read those kinds of emails any more.

On a lighter note, one very misguided reader wrote that since so many people read my newsletter and trust me, I should form "The Gary Halbert Hurricane Relief Fund" and raise money and administer the funds myself.

Is That Insane Or What?

Get it out of your head. I hereby promise if anyone ever contributes money to "The Gary Halbert Hurricane Relief Fund", I will spend that money on booze, drugs, hookers, online gambling and making illogical bets on Mexican cockfights.

Actually Shitweasel, I wouldn't do any of that. But I would screw up the administration of the funds in some uniquely creative way. I am not who many of you seem to think I am. I'm somebody who's trying to make it from one day to the next and whose game plan is "Trudge And Muddle".

One last thing on this subject: Recently, we had a truly "banner" day for news. More bodies were being uncovered in New Orleans. The problems caused all along the Gulf Coast states were being covered in minute detail. Hurricane Ophelia was pounding North Carolina with a vengeance. A very large tropical disturbance was brewing in the Caribbean, and it looked like it was going to morph into a strong hurricane, and head straight for Florida (it's almost here now), and eventually make other landfalls along the coastline of the United States. (Not much mystery about this hurricane. It, like the others, is going to tear the ass out of us once again.) Plus, other headline news that day were there were more casualties in Iraq than any day since the war began. Also, two major airlines filed for bankruptcy. I can guarantee you, there was a whole lot more horrible shit happened of which I am blissfully unaware.

It doesn't seem to be getting better. So, you know what? I'm going to do my best to put these tragedies out of my mind (at least until "Rita" blows me off my balcony) and get back to doing what I do best... which is...  teaching people how to be more effective at...

Operation Moneysuck!

Let's say you are a copywriter and you want to make a lot of money from the words you write. One way to do this is to simply be a freelance copywriter and sell your work to one or more clients. You can write for a set fee... or... you can write and get paid a percentage of gross or net sales... or... you can do a combination and charge a certain amount up front plus X percentage of gross or net sales.

There are a lot of good clients out there who will pay you a good amount of money in return for you creating good advertising copy for them.

But, there are also a lot of bad clients who will screw you one way or another out of the financial rewards of your hard-earned work. How shalt thy be screwed?

There are two main ways:

#1: "Simple Theft"

You do the work, give it to the client and he simply doesn't pay you. Or maybe he will pay you your up-front fee but not the percentage from the sales you are supposed to get (which can amount to an awful lot of money). Almost every copywriter I know has been screwed in this fashion. But the truth is, "Simple Theft" is the least significant way you get screwed.

The preponderance of how you get screwed out of money from clients is...

#2: "Under-Exploitation Of Your Work"

What I mean by this is, you write something with a high ROI (Return On Investment) but your client proceeds with almost criminal caution. If it's a direct mail piece, maybe he'll mail 5,000 letters and get $5 for every dollar he spends. But then he won't want to mail any other letters until he tests a blue reply envelope against the white reply envelope used in the test.

Or, maybe he will fear getting an abnormal amount of refunds and he'll wait forever to make a second mailing until he feels safe he's not going to get a 70 or 80% refund rate.

Or, maybe he has a merchant account with an absurd limit of only $10,000... and... you have given him a mailing piece, newspaper ad or website that will gross much more in half a day.

Or, maybe he will be stupid about customer service and making refunds and get closed down by an alphabet agency before he really gets the project going.

Most likely, however, your client will suffer from a built-in mental barrier which makes him very uncomfortable if he happens to be taking in large amounts of money.

Of all the times you get screwed by clients from simple theft... you will get screwed 50 times as often... by people who don't have the brains, the balls or the skills to properly exploit the money-making possibilities of the advertising you have given them.

Think about this: Years ago, Ray Kroc walked into a restaurant called "McDonald's" in a small city in California. He was impressed with the cleanliness of the restaurant and the efficiency of how it was run. The guys who owned it (I think they were two brothers named McDonald) were happy to sell him the rights to franchise their restaurant operation. Of course, the rest is history. There are now McDonald's restaurants in every civilized corner of the world and they sell billions of burgers every day.

Get this: Often the client to whom you are giving your precious advertising copy is going to be more like one of those McDonald brothers... than... he or she is going to be more like Ray Kroc.

Let's say you decide not to write for clients and only write for yourself. There are a few people like Joe Sugarman, Ben Suarez, Ted Thomas and a handful of others who have done this very successfully. But, they are very much the exception. Here's the way it most often (99.999% of the time) it happens: You write a killer piece which is very profitable and has a very high ROI. You want to keep all the money generated by this piece for yourself. So, you decide to start and operate your own business to exploit your own copywriting ability. My friend, you have no idea what lies in store for you. If you haven't tried to do this already...

You Don't Have A Clue

Of The Obstacles You Are

Going To Have To Overcome!

First of all, you're not going to have time to write any more copy for any more projects. Nope. Someone's going to have to man the phones to take the orders. Your time will be spent either taking those orders yourself or supervising your employees or keeping a close on the telephone answering service you might hire.

And the same thing will happen with the mail orders. Either you have to pick up the mail yourself or have an employee do it and someone has to deposit all those checks.

And someone has to fill all those orders. Again, it's either you, your employees you're having to supervise, or some fulfillment agency you're watching.

Of course, you'll also have to have a merchant account to process your credit card orders. And that, my friend, is when you will find how delicate that particular link in your chain of success is. There's a very good possibility your merchant account (even if you've had it for 20-years) will be canceled... without any warning whatsoever. This might result simply because you did something that caused a legitimate but abrupt increase in your income flow. Or it might be canceled because a few nut cases have called the bank operating your merchant account with irrational complaints about your company.

Or, your merchant account might be canceled, believe it or not, for no rational reason whatsoever. Maybe some underpaid clerk at the bank was having a bad hair day and resented the idea you were taking in a lot of money.

Most of you think if you run your business in an ethical and upright manner you'll never have to worry about customer complaints. You couldn't be more wrong. Customers (and even non-customers) will complain about anything imaginable. Once, I mailed one of my semi-famous dollar bill letters to a lot of people and the first line of the letter read:

As you can see, I've attached a nice, crisp $1 bill to the top of this letter.

And you know what? One guy sent me a very hostile complaint letter because the $1 bill I sent him was a little wrinkled and not crisp and neat. This is a true story. Can you imagine that? Here's a guy who receives absolutely free money in the mail and bitches about the fact the dollar he received was not in 100% mint condition.

Most likely, if you decide to run a business for yourself, what you really will have done is... have created a JOB for yourself. And, not only that, you will be driven crazy and end up...

Having A Madman For A Boss!

Well, what should you do?

I've given this an enormous amount of thought.

I was blessed when I had my first direct marketing success by hooking up with a partner, Dennis Haslinger (now deceased), who ran the business with the precision of a Swiss watch... and... cheerfully paid me my half of the profits. It was a dream situation come true. All I had to do (basically) was write the sales letters, give them to Dennis, and then sit back and cash checks written to me every month.

Dennis died in the 1990's and I have been looking for someone I could hook up with like him ever since. But a guy like Dennis is borderline impossible to find. Let me tell you some of the characteristics that type of person needs to possess:

First, he or she needs to be honest and ethical. The most important aspect of that honesty and ethicalness is the person will pay YOU the share of the money you personally deserve.

Second, the person must possess the ability to intelligently run very rapidly with a good idea. He or she needs to be a person that, when presented with a winning idea, will proceed with it like a Ray Kroc and not like one of the McDonald brothers.

Third, the person needs to be savvy. He or she needs to know the things you must avoid doing to incur the wrath of alphabet agencies, an unnecessarily high refund rate, and the toxic venom of people in general towards financially successful people.

Fourth, the person must have one or more extremely solid merchant accounts to process credit card orders. It's been my experience most people who have an existing merchant account have no idea whatsoever how fast it is likely to disappear once they become involved in a direct marketing endeavor.

Fifth, the person must have a lot of money. If you really want to go balls-to-the-wall as far as making money is concerned, you must hook up with somebody who is financially solid enough to exploit your marketing endeavors with the speed of light... and... do so without financial fear.

Sixth, the last characteristic I'm going to talk about is, the person has to be likable. And, by "likable" I mean compatible with you. What does it matter how much money you make if you have to interact every day with some anal uptight shitweasel you can barely tolerate?

There's more, but that's all I can think of off the cuff right now. And, believe me, those characteristics are enough to eliminate 99.999% of all people you might want to team up with.

Okay, now let's get down to business: Over the last few years (since I first began putting my newsletters online) my readership has expanded in an almost scary fashion. I'm not sure of the exact number but, I think my newsletters are now read by English speaking people in approximately 90 countries besides the United States. I think it's fair to say almost every copywriter and everybody else of significance in the direct marketing world is reading my newsletters with insanely rapt attention. They not only read them, they print all of them out. They bind them in books. They send me thousands of emails of praise. And, many of them, it seems, are hesitant to make a marketing decision without first finding out...

"What Would Gary Think?"

This is all great for the ego, but it's also insanity. Mostly, when people are wondering "What would Gary think?"... all I am really thinking about is the overwhelming difficult problems (at least difficult for me) of how to get my laundry done and one of my shirts ironed.

But, the larger point is, somehow I have become possibly the most "connected" person in the direct marketing universe. And, more importantly, I have found a very tiny handful of people who have all (and sometimes more) of the characteristics I described earlier above.

Let's talk about a vision: Let's envision you have written a great sales letter, newspaper ad or some other type of advertising copy, and you send it to me.

And, let's suppose I read it and make a judgment that, if tested, there's a good chance what you have written will become a success.

Then, let's suppose I deliver your precious piece of work to one of the tiny handful of people I believe to be the Dennis Haslingers of the New Millennium. Your piece will then be tested and tested rapidly. If the test works (meaning it makes a profit), the person who conducted the test will put up all the money needed to run with your promotion faster than Lance Armstrong can pedal a bike on a downhill slope.

And let's suppose that person will also take care of all product fulfillment, process credit card orders, accept all the mail orders, handle all the complaints, deal with any alphabet agency problems, provide both you and me with an accurate accounting of everything that's transpired... and... pay us a more than fair share of the profits generated from the exploitation of your genius copywriting ability.

I say pay "us" because I'm not going to do this for you or for our modern day "Ray Kroc" just out of the goodness of my heart. I will do it ONLY because, acting as the middleman, I get a slice of the pie.

Think a moment about the advantages of an arrangement such as this: First of all, it reduces the things you have to do to make money down to the bare minimum. In fact, if my vision works as I expect it will, the only thing you will have to do to make more money is write another successful piece of advertising copy. Then after that, write another and another and another.

Otherwise, if you decide to run a business on your own, what's probably going to happen is, you are going to find the time to do the most profitable thing (writing copy) will diminish down to approximately 20-minutes out of an 80-hour work week. You see, what's happened to the rest of your time will be filled up with the demands imposed on you by LMS (Lesser Mortal Shit). You'll be so busy getting mailings out, finding the money to finance those mailings, shipping orders, handling refunds, processing credit card orders, talking with alphabet agencies, replying to Better Business Bureau complaints, and smoothing the feathers of irate customers (and non-customers), your time for creating world-class copy will be diminished to less than the time you spend brushing your teeth every day.

Think I'm exaggerating? Trust me, I'm not. I know whereof I speak. And, it's only getting worse. The problems of owning and operating a business in the United States are exponentially increasing on a daily basis.

Here's what I think you should do (or at least, here's something I think you should consider): I think you should send your next or current marketing promotion to me along with your contact details. If I think it's something worth testing, I will contact you and we'll discuss it. If you and I can come to an arrangement, then I will give your piece to one of my tiny handfuls of "Ray Krocs" to exploit and run with.

Here's something else you should think about: I think if you have already written a successful piece which is making you money, you might consider letting me have a look at that promotion also. Because, the chances are excellent that successful piece could be much more profitable if it were being handled by someone the likes of which I have just described. Also, there's a VERY good chance I can "tweak" your already profitable promotion in such a way, it will become exponentially more profitable.

I'm just putting all this out for your consideration. You can do with your business and your life whatever you choose. All I'm doing here is offering you an alternative. (Actually that's a great understatement. What I'm really offering you is...

A Vast Improvement

In The Quality

Of Your Life!

If you're interested, please email me your sales copy with all of your contact details. Needless to say, don't send me anything that involves multi-level marketing or anything dishonest or unethical or scammy in any way. I prefer to deal only with marketing promotions that under-promise and over-deliver.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

PS – I've reconsidered creating "The Gary Halbert Hurricane Relief Fund." I've decided after all I want to do it. I want everybody reading this letter to make a contribution to this fund. I want all of the contributions to be made in the form of small, unmarked bills of $20 denomination or less. And, in the spirit of good Samaritans, I want you to send me your envelope full of cash, without revealing to me your name or return address. I want all of the contributions to be completely anonymous so you can have the satisfaction of having done a good deed for reasons so unselfish, you didn't even want anybody else to know it was you that did the good deed. Send the cash to the address at the top of this newsletter and write on the outside of the envelope:

"Theresa, do not open this envelope.

For Gary's eyes only."

I promise you, once I receive enough cash, I will go personally to the disaster areas of the Gulf States and make sure as many young women as possible have such a glorious "good time" they will be able to stop thinking of the nightmare their lives have become. (At least for a night or two.)

Not only that, if I receive enough money to straighten out the Hurricane Katrina mess, any money I have left over, I will scurry to the Middle East and straighten out the problems over there.

In addition to that, I will begin devoting all my leftover energies to curing cancer, heart disease, AIDS and every other deadly affliction known to man.

So, contribute now. Contribute generously. Contribute anonymously. And, trust in me.

I wouldn't lie to you, would I?

I just turned on my TV and our local weather man (Brian Norcross) says the effects of Hurricane Rita is only minutes away from knocking on my door.  Adios Shitweasel. I'm outta here.

Peace.

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Sewage Soup!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2005/09-02-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I want to thank all of you who replied to the message on this website which was posted yesterday (September 1, 2005).

I wish I could personally respond to each and every email sent to me but there aren't enough hours in the day for me to do that. Many of your  replies were very well thought out and contained excellent suggestions.

I believe I now have, to the best of my ability, come up with a few ideas to help people who have been ravaged by this monster hurricane.

First, I'd like to say very emphatically...

It's Not Over!

Not by a long shot. Even if all of the water in New Orleans somehow "magically" evaporated in the next few hours, most of the homes would still be unfit to repair and make livable once again.  I know this because I had a client some time ago who was in the business of mold remediation. He was a nice, plain, soft-spoken guy who I referred to as "The Nightmare Man". If   he would come out and inspect your home for mold and then tell you the toxic effects mold has on the human body, it would scare the wits out of you. When he talks to families about their mold problems, many of the wives pack up immediately and move to a hotel. They tell their husbands that if they want to "sleep" with them, they'll have to move into the hotel with them... and... they will have to stay there until all the mold is removed and their house is safe once again.

Mold is caused by moisture. Having mold in your house is like living with an invisible Saddam Hussein who is sneaking around spraying the most toxic chemicals known to man into the place you live. People get very sick from the effects of mold. The diseases caused by mold are too numerous to mention. A lot of people actually die from the toxins caused by mold. Those people (and their doctors) never know the source of their deadly diseases.

Well, as far as moisture is concerned, I think right now, New Orleans, Louisiana, might be considered the "Moisture Capital of the World". What I'm trying to say is this: Many of the people of New Orleans are never going to be able to safely live in their homes again.

That is, of course, also true for many of the people who lived in nearby Mississippi and Alabama and whose lives have been shattered by this cataclysmic hurricane.

But wait! There's more!

The hurricane season is only half over. If you watch the Weather Channel, you know new tropical depressions are already in the Atlantic Ocean as I write these very words. And the experts say the chances are good the last half of this hurricane season is going to be worse than what we have already experienced. "They" are out there. "They" are gathering their strength. And "they" are coming to get us.

Not only that, because of global warming, scientists say we can expect horrible hurricane seasons of this nature to continue...

For At Least The Next 10 To 15 Years!

I think I have good ideas about what we should do. But before I discuss and reveal my ideas, I want to discuss how you can help the victims of Hurricane Katrina.

Right off the bat, I'd like to say that as far as I am concerned, raising money is the easy part. Seeing to it the money is spent intelligently is the part that's really difficult.

President Bush has already pledged 10 Billion Dollars to help relieve the sufferings of the hurricane victims. To me, that statement offers no comfort whatsoever. My guess is, if the U.S. Government does contribute 10 Billion Dollars, the major part of it will somehow end up in the bank accounts of Halliburton executives and the executives of other large corporations. I believe anybody who looks to the United States Government to remedy any problem is extremely foolish and blind to the realities of our government.

After reading your replies about the Red Cross and FEMA, I feel very comfortable in saying neither of those organizations should ever, ever receive a dime of your money.

Many of my newsletter readers recommended money be sent to something called "Catholic Charities". I think Catholic Charities might be an excellent and ethical organization. But I certainly don't want my name highlighted with any organization that has the word "Catholic". Why? It's very simple. The Catholic Church is riddled with pedophiles. It's not a case of a few bad apples spoiling the whole bunch. Pedophilia is ripe throughout all levels of the Catholic Church. And the amount of money the Catholic Church has had to pay to the victims of pedophilia is so tremendous, it is large enough to repair the damage created by many natural disasters.

Other readers suggested we donate to the Salvation Army. I think that's sort of a good idea. At least it's much better than donating to the Red Cross. But the Salvation Army has overhead... and... I believe they do not have the skills and organizational ability to do what's needed to be done.

That Leaves Me An Option

I Can't Believe I Would

Have Ever Endorsed!

In a few minutes I'm going to let you read something one of my readers sent to me. This will explain to you who... and... more importantly WHY... you should donate money to in order to help victims of disaster.

But before I share that with you, I'd like to tell you what I think (after a lot of prayer and thought) really needs to be done to help these victims.

First, I think we should establish several safe haven "tent cities". I think these tents should be erected on wooden or cement platforms. Each of them should contain a small air conditioning unit. I think all of the tents should be supplied with cots, sleeping bags, toothbrushes, toothpaste, hairbrushes and combs, and all the other material things necessary to survive on an extended "camping trip".

Think of it this way: Suppose you are an "arm chair hunter" and you want to go on a luxurious safari to Africa. Say you've hired a company to book this trip and make all the arrangements for you. That would include your living quarters while you were in the jungle hunting lions and elephants and whatever other species of animals you felt could be justifiably and unnecessarily slaughtered for your momentary pleasure. The victims of Hurricane Katrina are living in a jungle they didn't ask to be in.

In addition to the tents erected to provide living quarters for the victims of this (or any) natural disaster, there would be other tents set up to give medical assistance. Just think of the way it was done in the popular T.V. series "MASH" and you'll get the idea.

All of the power necessary to keep these facilities functional would be supplied by gasoline or diesel-operated generators.

I think we should erect these "cities" in several locations across the United States... because... these natural disasters are not going to stop coming. I think we should prepare for them in advance. That's something we don't do any more: We don't prepare for things in advance. No. We just wait for something drastic to happen... and then... we react to it like a bunch of chickens running around with our heads cut off.

You'll notice I haven't addressed the problem of evacuating people and getting immediate medical supplies to those people who have epileptic fits, convulsions, heart attacks, or who need dialysis to stay alive. I don't think we, as civilians, can do this. This requires helicopters, military people trained in search and rescue, and others who possess skills which everyday civilians simply don't have.

The next five days particularly in New Orleans are going to be worse than you could ever imagine. The people living there (if you can call it "living") are actually existing in an environment of what I choose to call "sewage soup". It's not just water. It's water filled with urine, fecal matter, dead bodies of humans, dead bodies of animals, the by-product waste of petroleum materials, and so forth. And other stuff I can't describe and I'm sure some stuff I don't even know about.

The truth is, no matter how compassionate we are... what happens in the next five days or so is pretty much out of our hands.

But let's use what's happened as a catalyst to help the victims of other hurricanes and other natural disasters you know we're going to experience in the immediate future. We've got to prepare for these disasters ahead of time.

You know, the idea of living in a tent city sort of sucks, doesn't it? But it's a hell of a lot better than wandering around homeless in a city full of "sewage soup" desperately looking for fresh drinking water and food. Can you imagine how good it would feel to tens of thousands of those victims just to be able to brush their teeth? Or take a shower? Or to sleep in a clean and snug sleeping bag or cot? To have enough food and water to satisfy the needs of themselves and their family? To have a place 100 yards away where they could get medical attention?

Like I said earlier, one of my readers made a suggestion of an organization who could handle this situation better than any other organization I know of. It's important for you to know I am NOT a member of their organization. Matter of fact, I've made a lot of jokes at their expense. But I will say this, every member I've ever met has been ethical, trustworthy, skillful, hard-working, honest, and generous.

What I'm going to do is sign off now. I'm going to let my assistant, Theresa put into this newsletter word for word what was sent to me. I urge you to keep an open mind.

I Think They Are The Absolute Best Option

We've Got To Handle The Crisis At Hand!

I am going to be traveling out of the country for the next few days. It will be a very short trip. As soon as I return, I'll start writing more newsletters.

Before I leave, I am instructing Theresa to post on my website some of the thoughtful, intelligent and insightful feedback I received from my readers. It's going to give you a lot to reflect on. I hope it disabuses you of the idea we can solve problems... just by... mindlessly throwing money at those problems.

Something else I want to say. Yesterday's newsletter and this one are both somewhat sloppy. Usually when I write a newsletter, it goes through several drafts and I tighten it up until it is a very "together" message. These past two newsletters are not as together as I would like them to be. But the truth is, neither am I. I'm not really "together" at all any more. If I do have a few moments of lucidity during the day, all I have to do is turn on CNN for a few minutes and my capacity for clear-headed thinking is destroyed.

Everybody is saying we need to come together in this country. That's certainly true. But we need to come together intelligently.

Ah hell. I hate this. It seems to me I'm getting a little incoherent. So I'll stop writing now and let Theresa take over from here.

 

 

Dear Gary,

 My reason for writing is to address the your newsletter regarding disaster relief.  You asked, "What should we do? How can we help these people?"  And then you said, "The truth is, I don't know." 
  
I would like to make a recommendation.
  
First I want to say that I appreciate you for what you're doing now and for all of the efforts you have made in the past to put together disaster relief funds.   
  
On a personal level, I subscribed to your newsletter because of your marketing genius.  But the main reason I stay subscribed is because I know that you are a big-hearted, genuinely compassionate, very cool and funny guy.  I want you to know upfront that this email is long for the sake of these desperate and needy people and because I want to give your noble & loving intentions the time and attention it deserves.
  
And by the way...I'm a chic.  So if any of this sounds a little touch-feely, you'll know why.  Ok, down to business. 
  
As for my recommendation.  Regardless of whether you agree with their religious beliefs or not, it is my belief (through the extensive research I have done regarding disaster relief) that the organization of Jehovah's Witnesses is going to be your best choice when the primary concern is maximizing the use of funds in the most beneficial way for victims.  Here's why.
 
 They are the most non-profit of non-profit organizations I've ever seen.  All of their workers are voluntary.  *All* of them.  From the top down, the way the entity is structured, even the executives of the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society in Brooklyn, NY (headquarters of their worldwide organization) donate their time in exchange for very modest room and board.  I've toured a few of their facilities in the Brooklyn, Wallkill and Patterson, NJ areas.  I've seen it with my own eyes.
 
 Everyone who works at their printing facilities (where they print bibles and bible literature for their worldwide bible education work) works for room and board and they get a very small allowance (somewhere around $120/mo.) for personal items.  This entire organization is supported by means of voluntary donations.   And it's amazing......I mean, these people are not driving around in fancy cars and getting rich pocketing donations by any means.
 
 They spend their money on maintaining their printing facilities, printing bible literature, housing & feeding their voluntary workers (who all live in an apartment-like community maintained by the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society), supporting voluntary missionaries around the world, language and reading programs (where they teach illiterate people to read), DISASTER RELIEF....I could go on. 
 
 But the bottom line is that NONE of their money is used to line pockets of greedy execs.  And there's more than one way to donate to this organization.  You can just give a general donation to their "Worldwide" fund, or you can choose to dictate exactly where you want 100% of your money to be used, i.e., "Hurricane Katrina".
 
 Another big reason this is the best organization to donate money to is because they are so organized it's uncanny.  I was reading an impressive article in a magazine about Jehovah's Witnesses and disaster relief for Hurricane Andrew.  Check this out.
  
When Hurricane Andrew hit, the Governing Body of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Brooklyn, New York, reacted at once and appointed a relief committee to function out of the Fort Lauderdale Assembly Hall. They also assigned a considerable sum of money for the purchase of materials, food, and emergency items. As a consequence, Jehovah's Witnesses were among the first to react to the situation and began calling for volunteers. In fact, many came without even being called.
 
Witness workers turned up from California, North Carolina, Oregon, Washington State, Pennsylvania, Missouri, and many other places.  A Virginia Regional Building Committee that usually builds Kingdom Halls (the places where they meet for worship) sent a group of 18 Witnesses to repair roofs.  It took them 18 hours to drive down.  Relief workers took vacation time or leaves of absence from their jobs and drove across the country, hundreds and even thousands of miles, to reach their fellow Witnesses in distress.
 
There was a group that came from the Charleston area in South Carolina. They had experience with Hurricane Hugo back in 1989. They knew what to expect and soon organized relief supplies, including electric generators and building materials. Within two weeks volunteer crews had dried out some 800 homes and had repaired many roofs.
 
Even the media noted how well the Witnesses were organized. The Savannah Evening Press carried the headline “Jehovah’s Witnesses Find They Are Welcome in South Florida,” and The Miami Herald declared: “Witnesses Care for Their Own—and Others.”
 
It stated: “No one in Homestead is slamming doors on the Jehovah’s Witnesses this week—even if they still have doors to slam. About 3,000 Witness volunteers from across the country have converged on the disaster area, first to help their own, then to help others. . . . Any military organization might envy the Witnesses’ precision, discipline and efficiency.”  In contrast, an Air Force officer was quoted as saying about the relief effort in another area: “All the chiefs just want to be chiefs, but nobody wants to get down and actually do the dirty work.”
 
Jehovah's Witnesses have organized hundreds of Regional Building Committees all over the world to construct Kingdom Halls and large Assembly Halls. Thus, they have trained manpower ready to respond on a few hours’ notice.
 
During Hurricane Andrew, the Anheuser Busch company donated a truckload of drinking water. On arriving, the driver asked officials where he should deliver the water. He was told that the only ones who had something organized were Jehovah's Witnesses. In fact, within a week after Andrew struck, some 70 tractor-trailer loads of supplies had arrived at the Fort Lauderdale Assembly Hall of Jehovah’s Witnesses.
 
A volunteer there reported (I'm quoting from the magazine here): “So we received a whole truckload of drinking water. We immediately included this among the other foodstuffs that we were sending to the distribution centers at the Kingdom Halls. It was shared with the brothers and with the neighbors in that area who were in need.”
 
In the beginning, city authorities were sending non-Witness volunteers to the Kingdom Halls, saying, ‘They are the only ones who are properly organized.’ Eventually the military moved in and began to set up food and water relief centers and tent cities.
 
The original Witness staging area was set up by the relief committee at the Fort Lauderdale Assembly Hall, which is some 40 miles north of the main disaster zone around Homestead.  To relieve some of the pressure, a primary staging area was established at the Plant City Assembly Hall near Orlando, about 250 miles northwest of the disaster zone. Most relief materials were channeled there for sorting and packing. The committee ordered its needs from Plant City on a daily basis, and huge tractor-trailers were used to cover the five-hour drive down to Fort Lauderdale.
 
In turn this staging station supplied food, materials, water, generators, and other needs to three Kingdom Halls that had been repaired in the center of the disaster area. There, capable Witnesses organized building and clean-up crews to visit the hundreds of homes that needed attention. Kitchens and feeding lines were also opened on the Kingdom Hall grounds, and anybody was welcome to come for aid. Even some of the soldiers enjoyed a meal and were later observed dropping donations into the contribution boxes.
 
For many of the homeless, alternative accommodations were found in the homes of Witnesses untouched by Andrew. Others stayed in trailers lent or donated for that purpose.  After Hurricane Andrew, the superbly-organized relief program of the Witnesses was so well-known that some business establishments and individuals who were not Witnesses and who wanted to make significant donations of relief supplies turned these over to the Witnesses.
 
According to the article, these folks knew that their gift would not be simply left in a stockpile, nor would it be used for profit, but it would truly benefit the hurricane victims, both Witnesses and non-Witnesses.
 
In the research I have done, the disaster relief efforts organized by Jehovah's Witnesses are too many to mention.  Again, their honesty, use of donated funds and organizational abilities are unsurpassed. 
 
They have two official web sites.....
 
http://www.jw-media.org (This is the site where you can get their phone number which is (718) 560-5000)
 
 http://www.watchtower.org
 
 Look into this organization for yourself and see how they measure up to others for disaster relief.  Like you, I also care deeply for all the people who are suffering from this hurricane and I have already donated funds to be dispensed by Jehovah's Witnesses. 
 
 Perhaps when you call them you might want to ask how Jehovah's Witnesses are already administering relief aid to Hurricane Katrina victims.  This could ultimately help you in your decision-making process. 
 
 And even if you don't end up using this organization to distribute your relief funds, I hope that you have at least found this information helpful and can see that I truly care and appreciate what you are doing.   I want you to know that my prayers are with you and your efforts to raise money. 
 
 I wish you the most successful money-raising campaign EVER and I absolutely KNOW you will pull it off.  You are an *amazing* individual....I know because I read your Boron Letters.  Need I say more? 
 
 Respectfully,
 
 
Jina Henry

 

 

 	God Bless Us All,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.  For those of you who want to make a donation without going to the website Jina listed, here's the details: You can send your check or money order made payable to "Watch Tower" and in the "memo" section of your payment, write "Hurricane Katrina". Send it to:

 

Watch Tower

Attn: Treasurer

25 Columbia Heights

Brooklyn, New York  11201

 

As always... Peace.

 

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Cajun Country

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2005/09-12-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Here's an interesting letter I received from one of my newsletter subscribers regarding the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. It certainly gives us all something to think about.

 

 

This might appear to be cruel and heartless thinking, but I say now that this “worst natural disaster in the history of the U.S.” has hit, it’s time we stand back and assess where we go from here.  With 25 Billion dollars in damages, we would be absolutely INSANE to rebuild ANYTHING in the same spot again.  No matter if insurance companies carry the brunt.  Since its incept, New Orleans and its many surrounding areas have routinely suffered very similar fates every twenty years or so, generally caused by Mississippi River flooding.  Millions if not billions of dollars have been spent building and maintaining scores of bridges and levees that traditionally fail when needed most (as now).  Today’s radio news said one of several levee breeches is the size of a football field.  Meanwhile, Lake Pontchartrain is steadily unloading between seven and 15 feet of its bulk into downtown NOLA., and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has no idea how to stop it. 

My business contact told me about thirty-five years ago how he and his family had sat at the kitchen table in their home on the West Bank during a then-recent flood, watching the water rise.  When it got to knee level, they scrambled up to the second floor, then watched as the water continued up one step at a time.  Before it reached the top, the flow ebbed and the danger was contained.  What did they do?  Cleaned up the place and went right on living there.  I’ll bet theirs was one of the homes we watched this week (either under eight feet of Lake Pontchartrain water, or washed away altogether).  He told me tales of folks living right on the river who watched everything they owned wash away during that same flood in the 1960s.  When interviewed by the media, one man said, “Well, my granddaddy lost everything here 40 years ago, and my daddy lost everything here 20 years ago, and now I just lost it all.  But we’re tough – we’re gonna rebuild right here!” 

Poor choice of words, IMHO.  He should have said, “We’re ignoramuses (and evidently mighty slow learners).”

This week the mayor of Houston initiated a great humanitarian effort to bus the “Superdome people” clear over to Houston’s Astrodome for temporary shelter.  I say they keep that caravan of busses going for as long as it takes, and begin evacuation of ALL sea coast population, New Orleans to Biloxi or even Pensacola.  Give the ‘below sea level land’ back to the sea!  Move everyone as far back as it takes to reach high ground (at least 30 or so feet ABOVE sea level).  If that means Oklahoma, so be it. 

Let the Cajun bayou country go back to the gators and snakes.

jpd

 

Thank you for all the emails you've continued to send me about how to help. I've been overwhelmed with the care and concern shown by my newsletter readers... from all around the entire globe. Thank you.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Katrina Relief From Allen

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/09-03-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Here's a suggestion one of my newsletter subscribers wrote to me about helping the victims of Hurricane Katrina. I thought it was worthy of sharing with you.

 

Dear Gary,

I don't know how exactly to accomplish this, and I'm sure this was already thought about, but ... What about moving the homeless people into the military bases that are being abandonded and have been abandonded with the base closures?

Is there some way that people could be mobilized to pressure "the powers to be" to put up the refugees from New Orleans and Mississippi, and Alabama in some of the Military barracks that have been closed? Whether here in Florida, or Texas, Virginia, or wherever. Housing is already built. Infrastructure is already built. They are near cities and towns. Money coiuld be collected to pay to set up some sort of businesses.

From there perhaps some cottage industries could be set up so the people could start to work, make money, and rebuild their futures, rather than sit wallowing in misery waiting for the government to completely take care of them.

Sounds harsh, but as you know, when disaster strikes it is best to get up and take some action for yourself.

Just another thought.

Sincerely,

Allen

 

 

I know all of our thoughts and prayers continue to be with those suffering individuals.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S. If you haven't read my other newsletter titled "Sewage Soup", I'd highly recommend you take a few minutes and read it now. I put a LOT of thought into that issue before I put it on my website. Who knows? Maybe the information in it will save some lives.

 

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Trying To Reason With Hurricane Season!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/09-01-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

It seems to me it would be almost sacrilegious to write about anything in this issue other than the massive misery and destruction caused by Hurricane Katrina.

I'll begin by describing my own personal experience with this storm.

As far as I can remember, Hurricane Katrina wasn't even mentioned on the news until Tuesday or Wednesday of last week. At that time, it was described as "something we didn't have to worry much about." The weather forecasters said it might hit southeastern Florida but, it would probably hit as a tropical storm or a very weak Category 1 hurricane. For those of you who don't live in "hurricane country", to qualify as a Category 1 hurricane, it has to have sustained winds of at least 74 miles per hour.

On Thursday, I was scheduled to fly out of Miami to Baltimore to speak at the Agora Internet Marketing Seminar. (Which, by the way, was an excellent seminar.) My plane was scheduled to leave mid-afternoon. But I was afraid it wouldn't take off before the winds got so strong from the "outskirts" of Hurricane Katrina, all the flights from Miami International Airport would be delayed or outright canceled.

I considered myself very fortunate as I was able to board the plane. Once on it, I strapped myself in and we rolled out onto the runway. And there we sat. And sat. And sat. Our plane remained on the tarmac for two hours. Was it because Hurricane Katrina's winds were holding us back? No. We sat on that tarmac for two hours... because...

We Had A Malfunctioning

Toilet In The Back Of The Plane!

All the while, I kept thinking, "Come on, let's get this baby in the air. If we don't leave fairly soon, they're going to shut down the airport and I won't be able to make the trip. We can do without a toilet for a couple hours."

Finally, the restroom problem was fixed by a maintenance crew and we got off the ground and headed toward Baltimore.

The flight was nice. I met an interesting woman from Columbia who was starting a business of importing mahogany caskets. She and I laughed and joked and discussed marketing while waiting on the tarmac and during the entire flight.

When I arrived in Baltimore, the people were courteous, the city was clean and charming, the hotel was first class. The people I met, especially those from Agora, could not have been more accommodating and friendly.

Meanwhile, back at the ranch (meaning Miami), the "nothing to worry about" hurricane did come ashore. It came in about 25 miles north of where I live in Miami. And then, the hurricane lived up to the name given it by the mayor of New Orleans (he called it the "x-factor hurricane"). Hurricane Katrina  made almost a 90 degree left turn and headed dead south for Miami. The weather stations clocked gusts of winds of 95 miles per hour about 2 miles south of where I live. Then Katrina made a right turn and headed in a westerly direction into the Gulf of Mexico.

Then, in almost no time whatsoever, Katrina morphed into the biggest Category 5 hurricane (meaning sustained winds topped 155 miles per hour) in recorded history. I don't think I need to describe to you what has happened since. It is the biggest natural catastrophe in United States history and it virtually dominates the news.

I'll talk about the problems being experienced by the people in the hardest hit Gulf states (Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama) in a moment. But first, I'd like to tell you a little bit about what this "nothing to worry about" hurricane did to Miami.

As of yesterday, there were still 70,000 people living here without electrical power. The estimated hurricane damage to the Miami area is 100 million dollars. And we are the people who got off "easy".

Just as a personal note, I didn't fly back from Baltimore until Monday and Miami was, I would guess 85% back to normal then.

Anyway, some of my well meaning, good hearted friends in marketing are organizing various hurricane relief efforts. I, myself, am not. At least, not yet.

Back when Hurricane Andrew demolished the southern tip of Florida in August, 1992, the devastation was unbelievable. Homestead and Florida City (hardest hit areas just south of Miami) were completed ravaged by Andrew. Hurricane Andrew virtually flattened that region. A couple of days after Andrew went through, I hired a pilot in a single engine airplane to fly me over these areas. I hung out of the airplane with a friend hanging onto my legs so I wouldn't fall to earth, and I took hundreds of photos with my trusty Leica M6 camera.

Those photos were used by the government to help document the extent of the hurricane damage. They were also shown on television while I was being interviewed describing the damage. The most dramatic of the photos appeared in the newspaper, "The Key West Citizen" and they eventually hung for weeks in a Key West art gallery.

But the most important thing those photographs helped me to do was...  raise money for Hurricane Andrew Relief.

What I did was, I held a hurricane relief seminar in Key West, Florida at the Holiday Inn. I didn't charge one single penny for the attendees to come. All I asked is that each of them make a donation to the Red Cross to be used to help the victims of Hurricane Andrew.

I also said no one could make a donation until the end of the seminar. The reason I did that was I wanted to put on the best seminar humanly possible... so that... people would be encouraged to donate in a very generous manner.

I also had the most dramatic of my hurricane destruction photographs enlarged to poster size and displayed them all around the seminar room.

After looking at those blown-up pictures of the obliterated areas, and listening to me and my other speakers teach them all about marketing for days on end, my attendees donated so much money to the Red Cross for Hurricane Andrew Relief... that when the Red Cross lady was given the total check...

She Actually Burst Into Tears!

I was told I had raised more money for the victims of Hurricane Andrew than any other individual. That was not true. It was me and hundreds of my loyal readers who raised that money. I certainly in no way did it alone. I was only the spark that ignited a firestorm of generosity.

However, I'm not sure I would do it exactly the same way again. I've heard some things about the Red Cross which makes me think twice about that organization. I've heard from veterans of World War II who said the Red Cross would come close to the front lines where our boys were fighting with hot coffee and donuts... and then... charge them for this "service". I don't know if this is true but, I've heard numerous stories like this from a number of different people.

And then after the terrorist planes hit on September 11, millions, tens of millions, perhaps hundreds of millions of dollars were donated to the Red Cross for the express purpose of helping the 9/11 victims. Unfortunately, a large portion of that money was NOT given to the victims of 9/11.

The Red Cross then explained when money is donated to them, they put it all into a big pot and distribute it to people who need it, as the Red Cross sees fit. That's sure not how the generous people who donated money to the Red Cross specifically for the victims of 9/11 intended it to be used.

Also, there has been somewhat of a scandal a few years back about the executives of the Red Cross siphoning off a good deal of the money donated to that organization. The funds were not used for humanitarian purposes... but rather... put into these executives' own pockets.

Don't get me wrong. I don't mean to paint the Red Cross with a black brush. It's just I am now skeptical about how they use the money they get from all generous citizens who want to help their far-away neighbors experiencing unexpected suffering. Like with Hurricane Andrew. And now Hurricane Katrina.

Actually, I'd like to hear from some of my readers. If any of you have stories about the Red Cross... either negative or positive... I'd love to read those stories. Write me at kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com .

Now, let's move forward to the hurricanes which hit Florida last year. In case you don't live in Florida, I'll remind you we had four major hurricanes hit this state in just six weeks. (Charley, Dennis, Ivan and Jeanne.) The damage was astounding. Something like 3 out of 5 homes in Florida suffered damage or complete destruction from those hurricanes.

At that time, I tried to help by giving a very informative telemarketing conference which people could listen to for free. All I asked in return was they donate to the victims of the destructive hurricanes. Back then, we didn't ask the donations be made to the Red Cross. That's because my assistant, Theresa, did her own investigation to find out where donations should be sent...

So All The Money Would Actually

Be Delivered Directly To The Victims

Of Those Hurricanes!

 She found the best organization to distribute the money was the Rotary Club in Punta Gorda (near Ft. Myers, Florida where Hurricane Charley hit). I don't know how much money we raised by our efforts (since the donations went straight to the Rotary Club). I hope it was considerable and I'm sure every penny helped.

Now, let's talk about FEMA. FEMA is the United States' governmental organization which dispenses money to victims of natural disasters.

Last year, during those four major hurricanes, the places that got the most money... and... got it almost immediately... were the cities of Miami (Dade County) and Ft. Lauderdale (Broward County). That's kind of curious. These are the two counties who suffered the least hurricane damage in nearly all of Florida. The truth is, Miami and Ft. Lauderdale completely lucked out... but... a number of slick, savvy, sleazy people filed fraudulent claims and got paid enormous amounts of money by FEMA.

What about the people who got crushed by Charley, Dennis, Ivan and Jeanne? The folks in Punta Gorda? Orlando? Pensacola? The cities which were almost leveled? Many of these individuals have not yet collected any relief money whatsoever from FEMA. Many of them are still homeless, broke, and have received no aid whatsoever.

Let's shuck right down to the cob: If there were a contest for the two most corrupt cities in the United States, New Orleans and Miami would be duking it out for top position. The governments of both Miami and New Orleans are both so incredibly corrupt, if it weren't so tragic, it would be laughable. But, as corrupt as the governments of those cities are, there are hundreds of thousands of other people who live in those areas who are honest, decent, God-fearing people, who do their best to do whatever they can to make the world a better place.

So, how do we help the people of New Orleans, Biloxi, and Gulfport? Do we send a check to the Red Cross and allow them to spend it any way they choose? 

Even if any governmental agency did want to send a check to the afflicted people, it was pointed out on the news this morning, there are no banks within a number of miles where they could cash those checks. There are no ATM machines. There are no supermarkets. There are no check cashing type  businesses.

Even if those people could get a check... and even if they could cash those checks... there's not even any place to spend the money. No Wal-Mart's, no K-Mart's, no Home Depot's, no Lowe's, no Publix's, no Winn Dixie's, no Chevron's, no Amoco's, and by the most recent estimate of the mayor of New Orleans...

There Will Not Be Enough Electricity

To Illuminate A Single Light Bulb

In That City For At Least

12 To 16 Weeks!

What should we do? How can we help these people? The truth is, I don't know.

At least I don't know yet.

If any of you have any ideas about this, I'd like to hear them. I personally feel the pain of the people who are suffering the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. I, too, would like to help to the best of my ability. But right now, I just don't know how.

I'm thinking I might hold a gigantic free seminar. I'd ask each of the attendees to make a generous donation to help the victims of this terrible disaster. But the truth is, I don't know who or what organization the donations should be made to.

This disaster is a real bitch. It's the worst in the entire history of our country. People are already playing the "blame game". They're blaming the mayor of New Orleans, the governor of Louisiana, the U.S. army, the U.S. government, the engineers who built the levees, and on and on and on. But the truth is, it's pretty difficult to anticipate and prepare for a disastrous event of this magnitude which has caused problems never faced in our history.

To sum it all up, I'd like to help but I don't know how. If any of you have any ideas, please share them with me via email at kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com.

In the meantime, I think the best thing we can do right now is simply... pray for these people.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S.  By the way, the hurricane season is only HALF over. And this month (September) is normally the worst month of the entire season. By far. And the weather conditions which caused Hurricane Katrina are still present. Matter of fact, I understand those conditions are getting worse.

 

 

But you know what? The American people... not the American government... but the American people are perhaps the most generous, giving, creative and inventive people on earth. We WILL work this out. We WILL find a way to help the victims of this (and other) disasters.

 

 

We ARE going to fix this situation. I don't know how we're going to do it... yet. But I have complete confidence that working together we're going to discover a way to fix it.

 

 

We always do.

 

 

Peace.

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## One Hundred Million Dollars Per Year!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/08-15-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Have you ever noticed that sometimes I recommend the services and/or product of other people who sell the same type of information I sell?

There is a reason for this. If a person is really a serious student of marketing (or any other subject for that matter) he'll want to study just about everything he can get his hands on concerning his chosen subject. Naturally, there will be some overlap when a person does this. But also, the student will learn something new from almost seminar they attend, every video or DVD they watch, every new book they read, or every audio tape they listen to.

Another important consideration is, us human beings don't always "get it" when one person tries to teach us something. Most often, we have to be taught something about 17 different times until we really "own" the information. 

If you have read about my "Fusion Seminar Package" in the envelope marked "Billions" on my website, you already know you have been given...

The Chance Of A Lifetime

To Learn Unbelievable Online And Offline

Marketing Secrets... At A Price So Low...

It Breaks My Heart!

Another thing I'd like to say: When you set out to learn about something, make sure you are learning from someone who "walks the walk" and not just "talks the talk". Many people are selling 'how to get rich on the Internet' information... and... many of these people can't even pay the rent from their so-called "Internet profits".

Well, in this newsletter, you're going to get another opportunity to learn a lot of valuable information about the Internet from somebody who indeed, walks the walk when it comes to Internet sales. Their Internet sales last year was $80,000,000. This year, it will most likely exceed $100,000,000. I think it's safe to say anyone who grosses in the vicinity of $100,000,000 on the Internet is someone worth paying attention to, wouldn't you?

Anyway, they're having a seminar later this month about how to increase Internet profits and they have some of the best speakers in the world teaching at that seminar. To show you how smart they are about this, they are using ME as one of their featured speakers. If your schedule and bank account permits, you need to go to this seminar.

I can already tell you who some of the people are who are going to attend this seminar. They are the WINNERS who just attended my last ("Fusion") seminar. Winners want to know everything there is to know about the important subject that interests them. Losers, on the other hand, just snivel and whine when asked to pay the cost of the education they need to make a great deal of money in a short period of time.

Anyway, if you are indeed a winner, I want to give you a link that will connect you to one of the best sales pitches you will ever read about one of the best Internet profit-making seminars you will ever have the chance to attend.

I hope you click the link. I hope you read the pitch. I hope to see you at the seminar.

Here's the link:

http://www.agora-inc.com/reports/700SINTC/W700F833/

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S. In case you're wondering, it's Agora Publishing themselves who's hosting this seminar.

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## An Insane Idea?

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/an_insane_idea.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

 
Dear Friend & Subscriber,
I have an idea that's probably insane.
But, I'm going to throw it your way anyway.
Once in a while, I create a promotion which is too universally appealing for me to exploit by myself in anything even resembling a timely fashion.
The best example is the marketing I did for the family crest project. The letters I wrote continued to be mailed for 30-years and only ceased after my old partner Dennis Haslinger passed away. The market for that particular project was... ONLY... people who had a last name.
In other words, the market was endless.
So it is with the sex book I wrote and the copy I wrote to sell it. It appeals ONLY to those people who are interested in sex. In other words...
The Market Is Endless!
And that's only for Volume I. There's plans for Volumes II, III, IV, V, etc.
How can this book be marketed? Let's leave the Internet out of this discussion for now. Let's start with direct mail.
There are millions of names the letter to sell this book could be mailed to at a profit. They are on all kinds of different lists. John Carlton wrote a "sanitized" piece of copy for a "sanitized" sex book for Rodale Press and his sales letter was mailed (I think) for seven years.
I don't know how many lists would pay a profit... but... I bet a lot of them would.
Let's move on to another means of advertising. Let's talk about magazines. In my opinion, there lies the biggest potential for profit of all media. My guess is a single ad in "Men's Health" would pull in an astronomical amount of money. So would "Playboy". And "Penthouse". And all the lesser "girlie" magazines.
And all the men's self-improvement magazines. Plus magazines targeted to senior citizens. The copy seems to have a special appeal to men over 40.
My guess is, there are at least 300 or 400 magazines which would work with this copy.
Then there's also radio. Howard Stern type shows, etc.
And TV. I don't know how this book could be exploited on TV but, I bet there is some way.
Now we can talk about the Internet. John Reese's seminar, as I have said before, is the best I've ever attended. But, as I reflected on the 400+ notes I took at his seminar, I got more and more pissed off. His info was GREAT!
And, that's what pissed me off. The Internet, if you know as much about it as John does, offers too much potential for profit. Too many ways to make a buck. Too many tricks and strategies for me to want to learn.
Look at it this way: I'm like a guy who has been going great in the buggy whip manufacturing business. Then, in the blink of an eye, everybody is driving cars. It pisses me off. At my age, after all my years of learning to make top-notch, masterpiece buggy whips...
I Don't Want To Learn How
To Make Carburetors!
Or transmission engines or anything else having to do with cars.
So, what the hell do I do with this universally-appealing sex book... and... the killer copy I wrote to sell it?
I don't know exactly.
What I'm NOT going to do is sell the reprint rights to other people. Most times, when people do this, I think it's on the scammy side.
But, I'd like to have a select few people help me sell my book. Especially help me sell it offline. Maybe one guy would run ads in "Playboy". Another guy would run the ad in "Penthouse". Another in "Men's Health".
Maybe one guy would send direct mail letters to "List A" while another guy to "List B".
I've created the most-often-missing... and... the most CRUCIAL ingredients. I've created...
The Product...
And... The Sales Pitch!
But, there's a lot of infrastructures needed here. A lot of time needs to be used dialoguing with mailing list owners, letter shops, printers, magazine reps, etc. A lot of time and energy I do not want to expend.
Does any of this interest you? If it does and, if we end up working together, there will be some sort of equitable split of profits.
But, before you get too excited, let me lay a few truths on you.
TRUTH #1: Even though I won't be charging you to work with me... You Cannot Do This Without Money!
Mailing direct mail letters and running ads in magazines is NOT free.
TRUTH #2: Having the ability to process credit card orders is a must. And, you can forget it if you have a little "Mickey Mouse" merchant account with a cap of $30,000 per month. So... You Cannot Do This Without A "Fat" Merchant Account!
 
The final truth...
TRUTH #3: People think if I'm involved in a project, it is bullet-proof. That's bullshit. NOTHING is bullet-proof. Ask any ex-employee of Enron. In my opinion, there's a big, BIG potential for money to be made here. But, I do have to say it... You Have The Potential To Lose Money!
 
I'm out of my element here. I don't know precisely what I am proposing. Or how, exactly, to structure deals like I've just described.
You know, you've read an endless number of pitches written by me. Now, if you're the right sort of person, I'd like to read a pitch... written by you. Not a sales pitch for the product... but...
A Pitch Why You Think
You And I Should Do
Business Together!
Do NOT bother to contact me if you represent someone else. The words, "Sounds good to me. I'll go check with xxx and get back to you," are the "kiss-of-death" words for a deal as a far as I'm concerned.
Do NOT contact me if you have to borrow money to give this a try.
Do NOT contact me if you don't have a way to process credit cards.
Do NOT contact me if you don't have a way to take phone orders.
Do NOT contact me, if in the back of your mind, you think you're slick enough to rip me off. People end up being ruined and incarcerated for trying that. Not all of them. But, enough to make it a bad percentage bet for you to try.
Maybe this whole idea is stupid. I mean that. I'm groping around here. But, I have a firm belief... and... it's this...
Nothing Is Impossible
For A Man Who Refuses
To Listen To Reason!
And NOBODY has EVER accused me of being reasonable or sane. Listen, I suck at deal-making and details. But, I'm associated with a guy who's pretty sharp at that kind of stuff. His name is Aaron Copeland and, if you are interested in any of this... then...
FAX Him Your Details
And Your Suggestions!
Tell him why you would be a good person to work on what I have outlined in this letter. And don't tell him that, even though you're broke and sleeping under a bridge, your "overwhelming enthusiasm" will make the deal work.
Above all, don't reply to this message unless you are REAL!
 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
 Insane & Unashamed
 

P.S. A few people had a hard time downloading the free copy of my book. That's probably because they had an older version of Adobe Acrobat on their computers. Maybe you ran into this problem too. Hey, I can't anticipate everything. And just for the record, about $210,000 worth of those books were downloaded for FREE.

And, that page with the free book will be kaput by the time you read this letter.
P.S.#2 Aaron and I both look forward to meeting you at my seminar in Miami. Especially if you're going to take a shot at the deal I described in this letter. It's nice to be able to shake hands with the people you're doing business with.
P.S.#3 I bet everyone who is reading my "Motherload Collection" is having a hard time sleeping at night. Early comments are to the effect my "Motherload Collection" is worth closer to $30,000 than the mere $297 I charged for it.
And that's all I got to say 'bout that.
Peace.
P.S.#4 Oh, I almost forgot. You need Aaron's fax number. It's:
1-305-375-0066

 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Praise The Lord!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/07-29-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

First, I would like to respond to all of you who have so generously given marketing materials to Cathy Perkins. She now has a treasure trove of marketing information larger than mine, and I suspect, larger than many other professionals in direct marketing. I'm sure she will study all this and benefit greatly from it.

From time to time, I publish on my website a piece of work I have created for a client. I do this for a couple of reasons:

1)  I want to "showcase" my work and provide it to you as something you can study for educational reasons.

2)  Another motivation I have is by publicizing what I've written for a client sometimes will get that client more business. And if it's a client whose product or service I believe in, I like to see that happen. After reading the letter I wrote for the Surgery Eye Centers of Tennessee, a lot of my readers emailed me to the effect that if they ever did need an eye operation, they would go to Tennessee to have it done. Others wrote me that after reading what I wrote about Dr. Patterson, they almost wished they DID need eye surgery so they could go and be treated by him.

Another thing I've started doing which my readers don't know about is... I no longer just deliver my direct marketing copy to a client and assume they will exploit it properly. What I do now is, I send my work with a cover letter telling them...

Why And How

They Should Use

What I Have Created!

I think all of you know about Agora Publishing. They are one of the largest success stories in direct marketing. That's true for both on-line  and off-line marketing. Agora sends out very informative messages called "Early To Rise" and I think everybody who reads my newsletter should also be reading "Early To Rise".

Just type in "Early To Rise Agora Publishing" in your search engine and you'll find the link where you can sign up for this valuable and free information.

Having said all that, I now want you to know Agora Financial Publishing in Baltimore, Maryland recently hired me to create a direct mail piece for a publication they have titled "Options Hotline". I just finished that piece and delivered it to them yesterday. It's a 16-page sales letter. And, when you are finished reading this newsletter, you can download it and read it for yourself.

I'm doing this for a number of reasons:

1)  First, by letting you read the letter, I am NOT giving away any of Agora's proprietary secrets. You could not "steal" this letter if you wanted to. It's Agora and only Agora who has Steve Sarnoff and the incredible financial service he provides.

2)  I think publishing what I wrote for them in my newsletter will get Agora some extra business. The letter describes an amazing financial service I think some of you will want to have. You need to remember though, my sales letter will not be used by Agora until it is proofread and checked for accuracy. But I think as it stands now, it is 99.9% ready to be mailed.

After you read it, I'd love for you to send me any comments you may have about this piece of work. If you want to send a comment, please send it to  NoSexGary@aol.com.

OK, before you download and read the sales letter I told you about, you should know I am working on this project with a guy who works for Agora whose name is Greg. He seems to be a savvy and a guy easy to work with. Before you read the sales letter I sent to him, I'd like you to read the cover letter about this project which I also sent to him. I sent it by both fax and email. Here's my cover letter to Greg:

 

Dear Greg,

Attached to this fax (and later in an email), is the finished copy for the "Options Hotline" promotion.

I'm taking a chance here. I am sending you the promotion the way it SHOULD be mailed.

However, I'm almost certain you (probably because of your supervisors) will not mail this promotion the way I have presented it to you.

Everybody will snivel, whine and bitch about a sales letter in this fashion. "Oh My God!" everybody will say, "this is going to cost a fortune to mail."

Well, compared to what you regularly send out, that's a correct statement. But, if you would at least test the promotion as I have delivered it to you, I'm almost sure you will find it to be the most profitable promotion Agora Financial has ever mailed.

You don't know very much about me. But, if you would ever read my newsletters on my website (www.TheGaryHalbertLetter.com), you would discover why it is the most widely read online marketing newsletter in the world. I don't know what it is today but, my recent Alexa rating was 1610.

When I first started in this business, I wrote a 361-word one page letter to sell a family crest product. I broke every direct marketing rule in the book when I strategized that letter. People actually laughed at my pathetic attempt to write a sales letter. But very soon after that letter was mailed, it was grossing the equivalent in today's money of one-third of one million dollars... per day. And, that letter with modifications was mailed for more than 30-years.

That's how I started. Since then, I have written more direct mail winners than I can remember.

Often, my biggest problem when I write for clients is to get them to at least test what I give them.

Here's what you need to know about mailing this kind of a direct mail letter with a $1 bill attached to it. My guess (and it's a very informed guess) is, this letter will bring back 700% more gross dollars than the best control letter you have ever mailed for "Options Hotline".

Agora is a great direct marketing company. No one can argue with their monstrous success. And I realize Agora has utilized many of the very best copywriters in the world. But, I'd like to suggest to you what they have not used is a great direct mail strategist... someone who focuses not only on writing great direct mail copy... but also... direct mail strategy.

The way your mail is structured now, much of it is not delivered. And what is delivered, an enormous amount of it is never opened. And what is opened, only a very small percentage is actually read.

The "Options Hotline" promotion I am giving you with this cover letter will achieve almost 100% delivery by the Post Office. It will be opened by almost 100% of the people who receive it. And it will be read by almost 100% of the people who open it.

It's pretty obvious to see why this will work so much better than what you usually mail.

"But what about the bothersome logistics of preparing a mailing like this?" you and your superiors ask. Greg, I can tell you this... I personally have created promotions that required more complicated lettershop endeavors than this particular promotion. And, I was able to outsource it easily and to get 125,000 of those letters mailed every working day of the week.

Let me tell you about just one of those promotions. I created it for Health Laboratories of America located in Phoenix, Arizona. It was, I believe, the most widely mailed diet promotion in history. The letter worked so well, we almost couldn't find a list that wouldn't pay a profit. Eventually, after years of mailing tens of millions of pieces, we finally ran out of lists we could mail to at a profit. So you know what we did?

We got the file of everybody who had a driver's license in the United States. Then we did a computer program that did a simple calculation based on the height and weight information contained in that file. This enabled us to "kick out" all the porkers who had a driver's license. We mailed millions of those letters to those porkers at a very considerable profit.

By the way, that file, when I last checked, had a universe of 160 million names.

To hell with it. I know you guys are not even going to test my promotion. But hope springs eternal. And I thought before I did anything else, I would give it to you the way it SHOULD be mailed.

Then you can discuss it with the "powers that be" and when they tell you there is no way in hell they are going to test this promotion, I will rework it (it won't take much) and give it to you in the much weaker, lame-ass format which will keep everybody in their comfort zone.

By the way, this promotion does, of course, need to be proofread by you or some member of your staff with an eagle eye to make certain I haven't accidentally written something that is a factual error.

Anyway, please email me at NoSexGary@aol.com as soon as possible and let me know you're not going to even test this promotion. A prompt reply would be appreciated.

Sincerely,

Gary C. Halbert
"The World's Most Modest Copywriter"

P.S. As you know, Mark Ford here in Florida has a brilliant mind. Why don't you run this promotion by him before you summarily refuse to mail it?

 

 

Well, believe it or not, within minutes of having sent that cover letter, I got a response from Greg. Here's his response:

 

Thanks Gary - I printed it out and I'll read this bad boy... I pretty much make most of the decisions here, so I think we'll be able to mail this beast!

Thanks,

Greg

 

 

And here's the reply I sent him:

 

Praise the Lord!

Gary

 

I want you to stop reading my newsletter here... and instead... download and read the sales letter for Agora. It's very important you do it in this order. You see, after you've downloaded and read that letter, you need to come back to my website and continue reading this newsletter. That's because I want to give you some more information and ask you a few crucial questions.

Click on the link below to read the 16-page Agora Publishing letter for their product, "Options Hotline".

Agora Options Hotline\07-28-05 Letter With Table.pdf

 

*** ONLY AFTER YOU'VE DOWNLOADED AND READ THE 16-PAGE SALES LETTER SHOULD YOU CONTINUE READING HERE *** Well, I hope you found the 16-page letter you just read both interesting and informative.

In any case, here are a few facts I think you should ponder: We are now living in the most uncertain time in the entire history of the country... if not... the world!

By this time next year, there may be peace in Iraq. Or, the violence may continue to escalate (as many analysts believe) until it is such a mess, it will drain our country of so much money and resources, it could trigger a national bankruptcy. Or maybe the situation in Iraq will be something in between.

I just don't know. Neither do you. And nobody else knows either.

And what about the price of gasoline? Maybe it will be $10 or more a gallon (it already is in some countries). Or maybe it will drop to a $1.25 or less per gallon.

Again, I don't know. And neither do you. And neither does anybody else.

Same thing with the economy in general. A year from now, things may be just rosy. Maybe everybody will have a job and plenty of money. Maybe not. Maybe there will be a 30% unemployment rate and most people will be struggling just to survive. Maybe it will turn out to be something in the middle.

And what about terrorism? After 9-11 and the London subway bombings, we've learned anything is possible. Maybe they'll blow up the Statue of Liberty or the stock exchange building or the two nuclear power plants just south of Los Angeles. Maybe nothing will happen.

The point is...

Nobody In The World Can Now Predict

The Future With Any Degree Of Certainty Whatsoever!

Which brings me to another couple of crucial questions you should be asking yourself.

First, do you think you will ever be able to write copy as good as the recent examples of copy you've read on my website?

Secondly, do you even want to expend the time and effort to get as good at writing copy as I am?

My suggestion to many of you is the answers to both of these questions should be a loud, resounding "NO!"

You see, it's unlikely you will ever be able to write copy as good as me. (I love to use bad grammar.)

The first reason is, I am a natural born copywriter with a unique gift for it. I conceived my first mail order project when I was approximately 9-years old. Many of you are too young to remember this but before television and in the early days of radio there was something you could buy called a "crystal radio". This little gadget was made of (I think) some kind of non-precious gemstone like quartz that would vibrate to radio signals. It had a little wire thing that hovered over it. If you manipulated it around just right, you could actually listen through headphones to an occasional radio broadcast.

All the kids I knew and many of the adults wanted a crystal radio. If you knew how, you could make one of them yourself. But, of course, most people didn't know how to make one. So my very first mail order idea was to go to the public library, read up on how to make a crystal radio, digest it into an easy-to-read information product, advertise and sell it through magazines like "Popular Science" and "Popular Mechanics".

Of course, this did not come to pass. After all...

I Was Only 9-Years Old

Much later, when I got out of the Army and moved back to Ohio, someone suggested I go work for the Cuyahoga Falls Police Department. I had no interest in that. After three years of risking my life as a military policeman, I never wanted to experience violence again.

Instead, I went to work for a company on Main Street in Cuyahoga Falls called Economy Savings and Loan. It was owned by a parent company called Capital Finance Corporation. Economy Savings and Loans made loans to people who couldn't get a "standard" loan from a bank. As expected, many of the loans Economy Savings made ended up going south.

A large part of my job was collecting money from people who were behind in their payments. I was really good at collecting the money. One time a guy who was a magician "disappeared" owing us money. I located him on a cruise ship off the coast of Portugal and sent him a message about his debt. Picture this: Here's this magician who has done a "disappearing act" from the United States and is now aboard a cruise ship off the coast of Portugal  when he receives a call to go to the radio room... where... there is a telegrammed message for him to the effect he should pay the debt he owed to the Economy Savings and Loan.

Another time, I wrote a collection letter and had it mailed to every one of our dead beat customers. That letter, if memory serves me correctly, collected more delinquent money in one day than all of the company's efforts for the last five years.

After that, I wrote a letter for a collection agency called Financial Adjustment Service. This company was to be owned by me and two of my friends. Alas, the company never got off the ground. But that early letter I wrote (with no training whatsoever) was a virtual masterpiece.

It wasn't too long after I stopped working for Economy Savings and Loan that I discovered the world of mail order and direct mail... and... as the saying goes...

The Rest Is History!

The point is, I was born good at writing copy. Or at least, I became good at it soon after I learned the alphabet. That's probably not true of you. You were probably born with other gifts which I do not possess.

Not only was I born with the gift of persuasive articulation, I also  "nourished" that gift throughout the years. And, I continue to nourish it to this very day.

Most of you reading my newsletter, quite frankly, do not have this natural gift... and even if you did, there are not enough years left to live to nourish it to my level of competency.

Can you imagine trying to compete against Lance Armstrong in a bike race? He was born with a genetic advantage which makes his heart and cardio vascular system more than twice as efficient as the rest of the world's most gifted athletes. And he has nourished that gift by an almost impossible regimen which includes six grueling hours of training per day.

Can you imagine deciding it's your goal to beat Tiger Woods at golf? Well, you'd certainly have your work cut out for you. First, Tiger was born with the exact mental and physical attributes required to play great golf. And, if I'm not mistaken, he's had a golf club in his hands since he was 3-years old. And even though he is the best golfer in the world, I'll bet he still continues to practice more than any of his competitors.

Can you imagine having a goal of becoming wealthier than Bill Gates? I can't even begin to think of a way to intelligently attempt to achieving that goal.

Having said all that, you are probably thinking I am conceited about the gift I have for writing. You are dead wrong. Many people who've had the opportunity to personally watch me work have marveled at how good I am and they are insanely jealous of me. But I can tell you, if you lived inside my mind and body... that jealousy would fade away like a Key West sunset!

I think a lot of gifted people feel that way. Someone desperately wishes they could play music or sing as well as the star on stage. But that star, at the same time, may be suffering from suicidal thoughts, anxiety and feelings of worthlessness.

Listen, I don't want to ramble on and on about this so let me get to the point: You may never be able to ride a bicycle like Lance Armstrong. You may never play golf as good as Tiger Woods. You may never become as wealthy as Bill Gates. You may never be able to play a guitar like Dickey Betts. And... let's face it... you'll probably never be able to...

Write Copy As Good As Gary Halbert!

That being said, you probably CAN learn to ride a bike, CAN hit some golf balls, CAN make some money, or CAN write copy good enough to have some fun and maybe even make a little profit.

But when it comes to writing copy, I have a message for all of you who can afford to follow this one simple suggestion: If you need copy written, and if you can afford it, you should hire ME to do it. You're insane if you don't.

Even if you have the potential of becoming as good as me (which is very unlikely), who knows how your life and the world is going to change in the time it takes you to develop your skills to the level I have achieved.

For much, if not all of my career, it's been impossible to hire me. I simply didn't want or need any more money. But that's not true right now.

I just received an email from a guy who was cheated out of money he's owed for ad copy he wrote for a car dealer. He asked me if I had any suggestions as to what he should do.

I wrote him back saying I personally have been cheated out of about 2-1/2 million dollars in the recent past. Some of this money was flat out stolen from me. Some of it was lost because I entrusted incompetent (but non-criminal) people to handle some of my affairs.

In addition to that, the IRS has taken an interest in the last seven years of my tax returns. I think I'll be okay with them and that I don't have anything to worry about. But when you are dealing with any governmental agency, you just never know. Anything can happen.

In addition to that, there is a tiny handful of people to whom I would like to repay money they lost because of a suggested investment idea they got from me. I don't have a legal obligation to repay this money to these people. But my conscience bothers me. I just hate it whenever people lose money by "betting" on me. But I am human and sometimes it does happen.

Not only that, I think it's time I socked away some money to prepare for my "golden years". It's a funny thing but, I seem to be somewhat of an optical illusion. Not long ago, I was on stage in front of approximately 200 people who didn't know me from Adam. I told them I was going to give one of them a valuable prize. To win this prize, they had to guess my height, my weight, and my age.

Well, when I averaged up all the answers, it turned out the average guess of my height was exactly right. It turned out the average guess of my weight was 29-pounds less than my actual weight. And when averaged all together, they had guessed I was 15-years younger than my actual age.

The truth is, it doesn't matter how young and thin I actually look to other people. The calendar and scales don't lie.

Holy cow! I think I'm starting to slip into a "senior moment" and let this tale get away from me. Even so, before I wrap it up, I want to tell you one more little story.

I know a doctor who lives in Omaha, Nebraska. He has made two financial fortunes in his lifetime. He made both of them because of me and my copywriting ability. Some time ago, in the not-too-distant-past, just before I was beset by a horde of demons from hell, I announced I wasn't going to be taking on any more clients. You know what this doctor did? He paid me three times my normal fee... just to have me "on hold" to work on a promotion for him which didn't even exist yet! Well, he has finally discovered what he wants to work on and I am now creating the marketing for that endeavor.

Look, if you can afford me and you need some sales copy written...

I'm Available!

What you should do (once again, if you can afford it) is hire me while the "getting's good". I have a sneaking suspicion this door won't be open for very long. For one thing, I think after Agora tests the letter you downloaded and read, they are going to want to "own" me. Well, nobody's ever going to own me. (Except Sirian, of course.) But if the price is right, I will be available for an "exclusive lease".

Secondly, every one of the few times in the past I've announced I was willing to take on some clients, the response was so overwhelming... the window of opportunity to hire a great copywriter such as myself... didn't remain open very long.

I don't think it will this time either.

Hey, go read that letter I created for "Options Hotline" again. Then sit and think: Do you really want to put in the time, effort and energy to be able to write a letter such as that? Maybe you're broke and you don't have a choice. I understand that. But, if that's not the case, you should be contacting me via my email address (kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com) immediately. 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

Pathetic, Poor, And On My Knees Before The World

 

P.S.  I just heard Tiger Woods is coming to Miami. I'm going to gather up all the remaining money I have left and bet him I can beat him at 18 holes of golf. Oh wait a minute! That would be kinda stupid, wouldn't it?

 

I guess I WON'T go do that.

 

Peace.

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Answer To

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/07-27-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

In this newsletter, we are going to talk about what makes "Can You Guess Part II?" ("A Valentine For Jessica") such a good piece of writing.

I've already given you the reason why Part I and Part III of the "Can You Guess" series were so successful. Remember... the answer was...

Specificity

But that is NOT the answer with "A Valentine For Jessica". And, for those of you who haven't guessed already, it was me who wrote "A Valentine For Jessica".

When I wrote that little essay, I'm not sure exactly why I did it. I think mostly I wrote it because so many people were always commenting about "The Gary Halbert Style" of writing. I think all good writers do develop a "style" of their own. But I think what I wanted to prove was, a really good writer could write in almost any kind of style and from almost any kind of "voice".

What most of you perceive as my "style" is what you read in my newsletters. But it's my conceit I could write a romance novel for women, an action novel for men, a "legalese" contract, an ad for the Surgery Eye Centers of Tennessee, and a Valentine for Jessica... and... none of the people who read each of those would ever guess they were written by the same person.

When it comes to writing... especially ad copy... the best writing of all is...

Invisible!

When you are selling something, you don't want people to notice your style. That's why I don't very often use graphics. That's why I am (for the most part) against graphic designers, website designers, photographs in advertising, and so forth. What I want is people to read the sales message... and... not get distracted by graphics, style, photographs, music, or anything else.

Bob Dylan was interviewed on the TV show, "60 Minutes" recently. He recited the lyrics from some of his earlier songs. He then commented something to the effect, "Where did that come from? The lyrics were absolutely magical. There was almost a cosmic aspect to them." He also commented he couldn't write like that now since he was unable to access and tap into whatever source it was that enabled him to write those lyrics.

Something akin to that happened while I was writing "A Valentine For Jessica". I have read it and reread it, and I honestly don't know if I could ever write like that again. It seems to me (and I'll prove it very dramatically a little later in this newsletter) it was an extremely important piece of writing. Until recently, I didn't know why it was important and for whom it was important.

But I'll tell you what: As "New Agey" and flowery and mushy as some people perceive "A Valentine For Jessica" to be, I personally think it is a very straight forward piece of writing. A marketing friend of mine emailed me to say, as far as he was concerned, there was nothing in that piece of writing for him.

He was correct. That piece wasn't written for him.

You know, it's almost like I didn't write that piece myself. It's almost like a "higher power" was guiding my thoughts and my hands. It's almost as though I were nothing but the "channel" through which an important message was being transmitted. (This doesn't sound like the same Gary Halbert you've come to love, adore, respect, and despise... does it?)

Anyway, let's give this little essay a surface examination. What we have here is a man who is smitten by a woman and contrives to meet her. As she reveals herself to him, he is enchanted. But, she is not enchanted by him. And one day, she just evaporates from his life with nary a backward glance. But, for the rest of his life, he is unable to forget his meeting with this incredible woman.

I think things like this happen every day. It reminds me of something I once read about a man who traveled the world searching for the perfect woman. But alas, when he found her, she was looking for the perfect man.

Anyway, the publication of "A Valentine For Jessica" on my website has fetched me, what I consider to be, the most precious testimonial I have ever received. And don't forget, I'm a guy who has received tens of thousands of testimonials and praise from people like John Carlton, David Ogilvy, Jay Abraham, Gary Bencivenga and every other direct marketing person of consequence. For some reason, I don't publish most of my testimonials even in my sales pitches. But, I want you to read this one and I think you will understand why it is so precious to me.

 

 

Jessica learned to accept people and things as they are and not try to change them into what she wanted them to be.  The man is nameless so he could be anyone - and he is most people.  That is the secret ingredient in this essay.

I have a special insight into this because I have Multiple Sclerosis.  Many people have told me that I have given up but that is so not true.  I have accepted - accepted what I can and cannot do on any given day.  I am at peace with this monster as Jessica is at peace with her life.  For 10 long years I have tried to decide what to do with the rest of my life.  It came to me almost in a flash.  I am going to write - copywrite to be exact.  I am now absorbing everything I can about this business. 

I have no idea how to market myself but I know it will come.  An idea will 'magically' pop into my head and I will know what to do.  That is being at peace with the universe and that is what the writer of this article imparted so eloquently.

Cathy Perkins

 

 

Here's the truth: I, myself, did not know what the "stand out" feature of my essay was until it was clarified for me by Cathy Perkins. But I think if something I write can touch someone suffering with the monster of Multiple Sclerosis... and... can help clarify for her what to do with the rest of her life... and... can give her faith that an idea will "magically" pop into her head and she will know what to do... and can put her at peace with the universe... well then... I think I and whomever or whatever guided my thoughts and my hand when I wrote "A Valentine For Jessica" achieved something very special.

In Cathy's reply to me she said, "I have no idea how to market myself but I know it will come." Well, with the help of my friends, I intend to see that perhaps "it" will come a bit faster for Cathy.

I Am Now Going To

Call In Some Favors

From A Few Of My Friends!

You know, that "call in favors" doesn't sound right. In truth, I probably owe the people I'm about to mention as many favors, if not more, than they owe me.

I'm going to start with Scott "Mongo" Haines. Scott has recently completed the writing of an amazing course called "Shortcut Copywriting Secrets". So Scott, here's what I want you to do: I would like you to mail a free copy of your absolutely great copywriting course to Cathy Perkins. (I'll give you her address a little later.)

Next up: Gary Bencivenga. Gary, you've had some personal experience with the uplifting feeling you get by helping people who carry an unusually heavy burden. I'm asking you to send Cathy, as a gift, some of your unique and amazingly informative marketing instructional materials you have created over the years.

And how about John Carlton? It would a personal favor to me, John, if you would send Cathy every back issue of your terrific marketing newsletter and some of your other materials.

Michel Fortin. Hey Mike, by now you know the deal: Please send Cathy by email or snail mail, anything you've created which might help her with her new endeavors.

Ed Dale and Frank Kern. I understand you've created an excellent product which tells people how to inexpensively create little cash-producing websites. I think Cathy deserves to get one of your courses.

Hey Joachim dePosada, Dan Kennedy, Brian Keith Voiles, Joe Polish, Peter Stone... Oh gosh darn it! Gosh darn it? Is this ME, Gary Halbert, writing or maybe I'm dreaming and somebody has hijacked my website. Ah, whatever. What I want is EVERYBODY who reads this newsletter and who has created or possesses some marketing instructional material... whether it's on copywriting, Internet marketing, how to put up a website, anything at all which would help Cathy... to send it to her...

Out Of The Goodness Of Your Heart

As A Free, No Strings Attached Gift!

And, I'd like you to do this right away. 

Here's what else I'd like: I'd like ALL of you who gift Cathy with the type of materials I've just described to email me and let me know you did so. I'd like to know who you are and what you sent her. Who knows? If you do this, maybe, just maybe, you'll get something special from me in return.

If you have something Cathy can download, you can email it to her at clperkins@charter.net.

If you have something to send Cathy by snail mail, you can send it to her at:

Cathy Perkins

196 Penny Lane

Hickory, NC  28601-9341

That's it for this month. I hope this newsletter has given some of you a fresh and slightly different perspective of the world. 

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S.  God bless all of you.

 

Peace. 

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Answer To

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/07-26-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

In this letter, I'm going to give you the "STAND OUT" reason my personal ad featured in "Can You Guess Part III?" was so successful.

Just in case you're having a "senior moment" that was the ad that started with the lead-in headline... "Are You More Than Just Another Pretty Face?" - followed by the main headline... "Generous, Creative Businessman Wants To Find A Hot, Sexy Woman With A Good Sense Of Humor".

OK, just like "Can You Guess (Part I)?" I received an amazing number of emails from people guessing why this ad worked so well. Here's their guesses:

Headline: Many of my readers guessed the ad worked so well because the headline was so dead-on-target. This is certainly one of the reasons the ad was so successful.

Dominated The Page: Many of my eagle-eyed readers noted the fact this ad appeared in the classified section of the paper... and... since it was a full-page ad... there were no other ads to compete with it. Once again, this is one of the reasons the ad was so successful.

The Word "Generous": Many people guessed that using the word "generous" in my headline was pretty much iron-clad insurance many women would be interested in what I had to say. I think that's true. But curiously enough, as far as I can tell, only one of the women who answered the ad was an out-and-out gold digger. In fact, this particular woman only read the headline and then dropped all the way down to the bottom of the ad which told how to contact me. When I met her, it was obvious she hadn't read the ad and my meeting with her, if memory serves me correctly, lasted only about three or four minutes. All the rest of the women who answered the ad (at least this seemed true to me) were not gold diggers but, they were women who didn't want to date any more losers.

Humorous: A lot of the guesses were the ad worked because it was so humorous. I think that's true also. Women, at least psychologically, like a man who can make them laugh. Most women want to hook up with a guy who is intelligently humorous.

All of these were good guesses. All of the above were, indeed, factors which made the ad work. But remember... what I said we were looking for was the "stand out" reason the ad worked. I put those ads in my newsletters to illustrate a certain feature... a "stand out" feature... which made them work so much better than other ads. Even other winning ads.

The stand out feature in this particular ad is very much the same to the stand out feature which made the ad in "Can You Guess (Part I)?" (the ad for the Eye Surgery Centers of Tennessee) work so well. What made the ad for the Eye Surgery Centers work so well was proof... specific proof.

And the REAL answer, the STAND OUT feature of my personal ad was...

SPECIFICITY

For example, when I described myself, I did so specifically, very specifically. Matter of fact, I described myself so well, the women I met as a result of my ad were able to recognize me immediately (even though they had not seen a physical picture of me).

You know, I've often wondered about people who lie about their age and appearance in personal ads. How could they muster up the nerve to meet someone who has never seen them before but had only read a description of them which indicated they were 20-years younger, 12-inches taller, and 40-pounds thinner than they actually are? It reminds me of a scenario I carry around in my head.

A man and woman date each other. They're both committed to the idea they should not have a sexual relationship until they are married. After dating a while, they decide to get married.

On their wedding night, the woman takes off her bra and sets it on the dresser. Not only has she removed her bra, she has also removed the falsies she had been wearing which made her breasts look 3-cup sizes larger than they actually are.

Then she shimmies out of the girdle which had been responsible for giving her the appearance of a small, petite waistline.

She goes into the bathroom and removes her makeup which now reveals an acne-scarred complexion.

As for the man, he starts by taking off his shoes. Shoes, which turn out to be "elevator" shoes. Ones which made him appear several inches taller than he actually is. (By the way, did you know John Wayne wore boots with such high heels and lifts inside his boots they made him appear 8-inches taller?)

Anyway, after our man takes off his shoes, he also removes the expensive hairpiece he was wearing which gave him the appearance of having dark, thick, youthful-looking curly hair.

It turns out he likewise was wearing a girdle. And when it's removed, his much larger gut is suddenly revealed as opposed to the thinner waistline he had when he was fully dressed.

To top it all off, they each had gone into the bathroom, pulled out their false teeth and plopped them into glasses of water, revealing toothless smiles.

This is an exaggerated scenario. But a less exaggerated similar scenario happens, I think, thousands of time every day. If you want to lose your belief in the credibility of other humans, I can tell you an easy way to do it... just start dating people you meet online.

I'm only going to tell the following story because, as an Alpha Shitweasel, I feel an obligation to occasionally embarrass and humiliate my closest friends.

As you know, I have been training a brilliant, young copywriter from Ireland named Caleb O'Dowd. Not long ago, he "met" a woman online through something called "Craig's List". This woman described herself as extremely attractive, curvaceous and sexy, with all sorts of other outstanding attributes. Caleb made a date with her. As his mentor, I told him it would be prudent if we planned an "escape route" for him... just in case. What we agreed was, after he had been with her for about 20-minutes, I would call his cell phone. I would tell him we had a problem with the telephone operators who were taking orders for his business and it had to be fixed immediately. If the date was going well, Caleb would tell me that I should handle the problem myself and he would take care of it the following day. However, if the date was not going well, Caleb would tell me that he would come back to the office immediately so he could personally resolve the problem.

Well, me being me, and me being almost certain his date was going to be a disaster, I purposely didn't call him in 20-minutes. After about 45-minutes, I did break down and call him. I told him about the problem just like we had discussed.

Caleb said, "Thank you for the phone call. I'll leave right away to take care of it."

I responded, "That's really not necessary Caleb. I think Amit, Theresa and I can really handle it."

"NO!" He yelled. "I'm leaving RIGHT NOW to take care of this. It's too important for me not to come back."

Then I replied, "No, really, you just go ahead and enjoy your date. I assure you, we can handle it without you."

He then screamed, "I'll fix it myself DAMN IT! Don't do a thing without me."

When Caleb got back and started telling Amit and myself about his date, we were convulsed with laughter. Caleb said she had described herself as having a guitar-shaped figure. When, in fact, she had an ass the size of a Mack truck! He ranted and raved about the wretchedness of this woman so much so, I wish Amit and I would have had a video tape running. It would have played well on "The Comedy Channel".

By the way, this woman's name was Jamiel and she'll never read this newsletter. So I want everybody who does read it and who ever has the chance to meet Caleb to say something to him like, "Hey Caleb, want to go to the bar and have a drink or maybe a cup of coffee? I've got Jamiel waiting there for you."

Caleb being Irish is extremely fair-skinned. We went to the beach a couple weeks ago and he got lobster-red sunburned. But I tell you... that rich-red sunburn was nothing compared to the embarrassed flush that still comes over Caleb whenever anybody mentions the name "Jamiel".

I've now given you something very valuable: A tool with which to embarrass and humiliate a good person whenever you're having a bad day.

Seriously though and all kidding aside, I just don't understand how a person can grossly misrepresent themselves in a personal ad... and then... have the nerve to appear in person, looking and being so different than the way they had described themselves.

So let me get back to and elaborate on the "stand out" feature of my personal ad... which... once again was...

SPECIFICITY

Not only did I accurately describe my physical appearance, I also told the specifics of my workout routine. I was so specific, I even mentioned the fact that when I did my roadwork, it was near Lake Hollywood. I was specific and truthful about my two marriages and the other women I had met in the recent past. I was very specific about what I wanted in a woman... and... what I didn't want in a woman.

All of you know (or at least you should know) the copywriting formula AIDA (Attention Interest Desire Action). I think an "S" should be added to the end of that formula. The "S" would stand for "Specificity".

I'm now going to reveal a secret which can multiply the profit of many, if not all, of the marketers who read this newsletter.

This secret is true for ALL marketers... but especially... especially... especially... true for online marketers.

I've said it many times before and I'll say it again: There are three reasons people do NOT buy from you:

1) They don't want what you are selling.

2) They can't afford what you are selling.

3) They don't believe you.

Many of the people who go into direct marketing and, especially those who go into internet direct marketing, do so because they have "Walter Mitty" personalities. A Walter Mitty type person is a guy who dreams grandiosely in his mind's eye about doing heroic things. Like maybe playing in The Superbowl. Or dating a stunning model like Claudia Schiffer. Or making millions of dollars like Bill Gates. But in reality, the Walter Mitty's of this world just don't have the balls to actually get in the arena to play ball or ask the woman of their dreams for a date or to do all of the risky steps you have to do to amass a fortune.

Believe it or not, I'm not being judgmental about these type people. I'm just being objective. Truth be told, in many ways, I'm somewhat a Walter Mitty type person myself.

So, direct marketing, and especially online direct marketing, has great appeal for these type people. They can create advertising and say things about themselves, their products, or services without ever having to meet face-to-face the people to whom they communicate.

How much would you pay for a SECRET GUARANTEE to multiply your profit? A hundred thousand dollars? Ten thousand dollars? A thousand dollars? Fear not, you Lesser Shitweasel! I'm going to reveal (for free) a way you can multiply your profits by spending nothing (or at the most, maybe $100 per month).

Here's the thing: When people buy from a sales pitch (ESPECIALLY an internet sales pitch) they have a deep-rooted fear if anything goes wrong, they will never be able to communicate with anyone from that business. They fear this for good reason. The good reason is, it's most often true. Actually, on the internet, it's almost 100% true.

Think about it: Buying something over the internet is truly a leap of faith. All the customer usually knows about the seller is their email address. The customer doesn't know if the seller is male or female; a pillar of the community or a fraud. The customer doesn't know where the seller is located; they don't have a direct telephone number to reach the seller; or any other way to get in contact with them. 

Most internet marketers are "lurkers". They're hiding in a dark closet in their underwear taking amphetamines and grinning like 8-year-old boys who have just dropped a lizard down the blouse of one of their female classmates. They exult in the fact they can come off like Superman... when... they are really nothing more than pathetic, anorexic-looking little weaklings.

OK, maybe I'm exaggerating just a little about internet marketers. But here's what all marketers - internet or otherwise - should do to increase their sales.

All Marketers Should Give All Their Prospective Customers

Enough SPECIFIC Details About Themselves And Their Business...

It Convinces Them That, If Necessary, They Could

"Reach Out And Touch The Marketer"

One way to do this is to simply give your physical address. You can improve on that by giving out your real business telephone number.

Let's take that a step further. What if in our ad we spelled it all out like this:

"Our little company, ABC Widgets, Inc. is located at 123 Elm Street in Massillon, Ohio. Our ZIP Code is 44646. Our toll-free order-taking phone number is 1-800-xxx-xxxx. You can reach an operator there any time, 24-hours a day, 7-days a week. However, if you have any questions, you can call us directly at 1-216-xxx-xxxx. You can call our office any time Monday through Friday, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. And if you are ever in our area, we'd love for you to visit and we'll be happy to show you the merchandise we are selling. Just make sure you don't come by between 12 noon and 1:00 p.m. because that's when we close up shop for lunch."

Most of you reading this can't even begin to imagine...

How POWERFUL An Addition

Those FEW Words Will Be

To Your Sales Pitches!

And all of you should know this: Only a tiny, tiny percentage of your customers will actually ever visit you or even telephone you. But, all of your would-be customers will be greatly comforted by the fact they COULD visit you if they wanted to and they COULD telephone you if they so desired.

Now comes the stupid question which I am sure is forming in the minds of many of my readers: "But gosh Gary, I don't have a store. I don't have an office. Besides, I want to remain anonymous. What am I supposed to do?"

Looky here, you brainless twit. You can do this and still remain anonymous. And, without lying.

If you do have an office or a store, just publicize it in the way I just described.

If you don't have an office or a store, just spend $100 (or less) per month to get yourself a little 100 square foot office or retail space. It'll probably cost you an extra $6 per month to put in a POTS line. (Plain Old Telephone Service line.) Then, if you're really Walter Mittyish like and chintzy, put a voicemail on your POTS line with an outgoing message that says: "Hi, you've reached ABC Widgets Incorporated. We're busy right now but if you'll leave your name and number, we'll get right back with you." Then, of course, get right back to them yourself. Or if you're truly a gutless wonder, pay somebody a minimum wage to retrieve and make these return phone calls for you.

Just think what you will have achieved by doing what I just suggested: You will have implanted in the minds of all your would-be customers that they know where you are, and that they can visit or telephone you almost any time they chose. In other words, they'll know they can...

Reach Out And Touch You!

I hate giving out valuable advice like this which I know so few of you will follow.

 

 	Specifically yours,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S.  As you can tell by reading my personal ad, and by the fact I planned an "escape route" for Caleb, and by the fact I have a beautiful and non-toxic Costa Rican girlfriend, I pretty much know all there is to know about women! For example, I bet you didn't know that women have four specific different kinds of orgasms. They are:

 

1) The POSITIVE kind:  "Oh Yes! Oh Yes!"

 

2) The NEGATIVE kind:  "Oh No! Oh No!"

 

3) The SPIRITUAL kind: "Oh God! Oh God!"

 

4) The FAKE kind:      "Oh Gary! Oh Gary!"

 

P.S. #2  Even I am not conceited enough to believe this. Any man who believes it is a complete fool. Would you like to know the specific secret I used to capture my current girlfriend and a few other exceptional women I have been fortunate enough to have in my life? Well, here it is...

Blind Luck!

 

P.S. #3  There's another valuable but "hidden" lesson in this newsletter. Hark unto me! We live in a complicated, insane and frightening world. And in my opinion, none of us have a ghost of a chance... unless...

We Can Laugh Good Naturedly At Ourselves!

 

      Peace.

 

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Answer To

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2005/07-13-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I have received an enormous amount of e-mails from people trying to guess why each of the three letters I recently put on my website were so successful. (The letters in Parts I, II and II of "Can You Guess?") Today, I'm going to talk about the first of those letters which was written for the Eye Centers of Tennessee.

As I mentioned before, out of all the replies I received regarding those newsletters (Parts I, II and III), a small percentage of my subscribers hit the answer right on the head, another small percentage didn't have a clue, and most of the guesses fell somewhere in the middle (meaning they were partially right about what made those letters successful).

A lot of you attributed the excellence of the letter written for the Eye Centers of Tennessee to the dollar bill attached as a grabber. Let me explain something: Attaching a dollar bill to the top of a letter to get someone's attention is what I call a "multiplier". In other words, it is very likely to multiply the effectiveness of the letter. But if the letter isn't already effective, just sticking a dollar bill on the first page won't make it profitable. Know this:

You Can't Multiply Zeros!

Other subscribers wrote saying the letter was effective because it was mailed to people with the proper demographics which made them most likely to need the service. Well, as near as possible, the letter will be mailed (hopefully for years to come) to people with the proper demographics. However, any profitable promotion has to be mailed to people who are real prospects for what you are selling if it is to have a chance of making it work. So, if it a profitable sales letter, it's pretty much a given the letter is already being mailed to the people who are actually prospects for what you are selling.

The REAL reason the Eye Centers' letter worked... the really "stand out" feature of this letter over most other letters... can be summed up in one word:

Proof!

Specific, detailed proof.

Ray Mays, the Director of the Eye Centers of Tennessee, gave me substantial help with that letter. How so? He provided me with an enormous amount of detailed information. Information which went a long way to prove the extraordinary lengths Dr. Patterson goes through to provide all his patients with the best possible care... and... the extraordinary lengths Dr. Patterson goes through to ensure all his operations are as safe as possible. I used a great deal of what Ray Mays had already written about the specifics of how Dr. Patterson conducts his medical practice, word-for-word. I used most of it unchanged. And Ray Mays deserves as much credit for the success of that letter as I do. He provided me with nearly all the "ammunition" I needed to write the letter. My primary job was to properly sequence and "showcase" this ammunition so that it would get noticed and read by the  target audience.

However, even though Ray Mays provided me with all this invaluable ammunition, you know what else I did? I had Dr. Patterson treat me exactly as though I were a new patient. I filled out the admitting forms, allowed myself to have my eyes examined by his staff, and went through the whole routine just as though I were a real new patient getting ready to find out if I was a candidate for this surgery.

It also didn't hurt that I, myself, have had two eye surgeries. One of which involved the removal of a cataract (which is Dr. Patterson's specialty).

Many of my readers were shrewd enough to mention the letter was, in many ways, similar to the famous "Schlitz Beer Letter" written by Claude Hopkins decades ago. What Claude Hopkins did when he was preparing the advertisement for Schlitz Beer was dramatize the lengths the company went through to create their beer in a 100% sterile environment. Other beer companies probably did the same things to ensure the sterility of their product... but...

They Never Bothered

To Inform The Drinking Public

About All These Specific Details!

Probably other eye surgeons use some of the same procedures Dr. Patterson uses to ensure the safety and effectiveness of their operations... but... they miss the mark by not informing their patients about all this.

Remember, I said the Eye Centers' letter is not only a good example of proof, I said it was specific, detailed proof. Here's just a few examples of what I mean:

 

 

Where The Procedures Are Performed

Dr. Patterson performs all eye surgeries in an ambulatory surgery center which is licensed by the State of Tennessee and certified by the U.S. Government. The surgery center is built to the exact same standards required for open-heart surgery or brain surgery. For example, Dr. Patterson's surgery center features:

Humidity Control: Of all the variables involved with a sterile environment and successful Cataract surgery, humidity is one of the biggest. If the humidity was too high, or low, infectious spores could grow or mutate and be carried around the room by human movement.

But Dr. Patterson has gone to extraordinary measures to control humidity in his facility. You see, during construction, the contractors placed a layer of rubberized asphalt laminated to a polyethylene film under the concrete slab to prevent vapor from seeping up through the concrete floor.

Plus, he also uses a combination humidifier/dehumidifier system to add or remove moisture from the air as necessary.

Dust and Airborne Particles: Obviously dust and other airborne particles can cause infections.

Just like humidity, invisible dust or airborne particles may come in contact with the eye during surgery and cause an infection later on. This is why the air in the room is exchanged a minimum of two times every five minutes. Dr. Patterson's system for doing this is one of the most advanced of its kind, and also includes a HEPA filtration system which filters the dust and particles out of the air at the same time.

Temperature Control: In conjunction with humidity control, temperature control is important in consistent successful outcomes. Dr. Patterson maintains a constant 68° in the room at all times. The surgery center features a digitally controlled heating, ventilation and air conditioning system with graphical software and telelink modem. Dr. Patterson controls the temperature to plus or minus 1/10 (one-tenth) of a degree.

General Cleanliness: In order to maintain general cleanliness and sterility, the room has to be constructed with special flooring and paint. Why? So it can withstand the harsh cleaning agents required to maintain a sterile environment.

Dr. Patterson's floor covering is an operating room grade, low porous vinyl and the walls are covered with an epoxy-based paint. The ceiling is constructed with a non-particulate material with a vinyl veneer which enables the ceiling to be cleaned.

Dr. Patterson is a stickler for maintaining cleanliness in his operating room and insists the cleaning schedule be followed religiously. And because he goes to these kinds of lengths to make sure there is absolutely no infectious particles in his theatre, many of his patients enjoy a speedy recovery.

What Happens If The Power Goes Out?

There is always someone who asks, "What happens if the power goes out during my surgery?" That is a question Dr. Patterson can easily answer.

Dr. Patterson has a 150 Kilowatt, 480 Volt, 3 Phase backup generator. If you are like me, you have no idea what that means. But what I do know is, within 4-seconds of losing power, Dr. Patterson's whole building is up and running with full power... and... it can continue like this for 24-hours.

 

 

All of this adds up to very specific, detailed proof.

You see, you can't just say, "We do everything possible to ensure the safety of our patients." What you must say is, "Here are the specific things we do to ensure the effectiveness and safety of you, as our patient."

There are a lot of other factors which contribute to the successfulness of the Eye Centers' letter... but... specific, detailed proof is the stand out feature of the letter.

I'd like to congratulate those of you who got the answer 100% correct. And I applaud ALL of you for sending in your guesses. Whether 100% correct, somewhat correct, or not even a clue, you took the time to read the letter, dissect it, and send me your guesses. I hope this has been a profitable educational experience for everybody who reads my newsletters and my website.

In my next posting, I'm going to explain what made the ad featured in "Can You Guess Part III?" so effective. I'm saving the answer to "Can You Guess Part II?" (A Valentine for Jessica) because the answer which makes that piece of writing so successful is...

Very Unusual And

Almost Impossible

To Figure Out!

 

 	Specifically Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S. My last seminar (my "Fusion" seminar) had, I believe, the highest energy level of any seminar I have given (or attended). Much of the information dispensed at that seminar has never been revealed in any other seminar, book, or course. All of the excitement and information has been captured on DVD's. We are rushing to get these DVD's duplicated and we'll send you a letter about them and the information they contain as soon as we have them ready.

 

Anyway, that's it for now.

 

But, you'll be hearing from me again soon.

 

Peace.

 

 

 

 

	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## An Example Of Mark Joyner's Genius Viral Marketing Techniques

Kilde: https://thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/An%20Example%20Of%20%20Mark%20Joyner's%20Genius%20%20Viral%20Marketing%20Techniques

404: Oops, this page couldn’t be found.

It seems we can’t find what you’re looking for. Perhaps searching, or one of the links below, can help.

Search for:
Recent Posts
Hello world!
Recent Posts
Hello world!
Recent Comments
Archives
July 2014
Categories
Uncategorized
Meta
Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.org

Copyright © 2024 · The Gary Halbert Letter · All Rights Reserved

## The Most Important Thing You Need To Know To Make Website Profits

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/seminar.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

You better watch out... because... I'm going to try to sell you something with this letter.

What I'm going to try to sell you on is "knowing" something. Knowing it deep down in your heart and guts so you'll never forget it. Knowing it in the wiring of your mental and muscle memories. Knowing it in the core of your being. What I want you to know... what I want to POUND and POUND and POUND into you is this...

You Cannot Multiply Zeros!

And the "zero" I'm talking about in this case is a vapid, limp, non-compelling sales message. I don't care if it's a direct mail letter, a website, a newspaper ad, magazine ad, radio or TV commercial or whatever. If it's a "nothing" message, I don't care how good your ad layout is, how well the ad is typeset. If it's a radio commercial, I care NOT how good the sound effects are or how vibrant, pleasant and commanding the announcer's voice is. If it's a website, I don't care how many website/internet secret tricks and techniques you know.

Take any non-compelling message and show it to someone. That person will not respond. Show it to 10,000 people and none (or pathetically few) of them will respond.

Until recently, the internet made it possible for something to happen which was never possible before in history: The internet made it possible for people who knew NOTHING about marketing to make some money. I'm sitting maybe 12-feet from one of those people right now as I write this. He's a good guy. Smart as hell. More intelligent than me. A stone cold workaholic.

Here's what he used to do: He used to send out (actually he had it done for him) about 30,000,000 e-mails per day. From this, he got about 2,500 responses... from which... he made a good deal of money. Hark unto me. LISTEN to what I'm saying here! (Can you listen to what someone is writing?)

I digress. Allow me to mush on. What I'm trying to tell you is, he was getting 2,500 sales from 30 freaking MILLION impressions. And that...

Is NOT Marketing!

That is like holding 30 MILLION pieces of bacon 3-feet above the water over 10,000 square miles of ocean. Once in a teensy, little while, his strip of bacon was held over a square yard of ocean... where... directly underneath was a dozen or so starving, ravenously hungry fish. These fish were SO hungry, they would climb on each other's backs (like circus performers) until one of them had his head 1/2 inch above the water... and... with a collective shuddering and buckling by all his "buddy" fish... and... and a herculean effort on his part, he was able to catapult himself 3-feet above the surface of the ocean and snarf down that piece of bacon.

How often did this happen? Do the math. It happened about 25 times (or less) for every one MILLION pieces of dangling bacon. That means, he snagged about one fish for every 40,000 pieces of bacon he dangled. That's a big fat .00025% response.

Why was it possible to make money with a pathetic response like this? Well, my friend wasn't doing the emailing. He had that outsourced. And the people he outsourced it to had to pay about $8,000 per month in "infrastructure" costs. That $8,000 allowed them to send 30 MILLION emails per day. Which works out to like being able to send out 120,000 messages for a dollar. Or 1,200,000 messages for $10. Or 10 MILLION messages for $120.

You don't have to have a very good sales message to make a buck with those kinds of numbers, do you?

And yet, most internet "marketers" can't even make money with that kind of math. And, those days are gone forever. Unless, you want to move to Asia, China or some hideous place similar and live so far "on the edge" that... one day... inevitably, several alphabet agencies (with International jurisdiction) will come grab you up and put you in a place where you really, really don't want to be... for... a long, long time.

Internet "marketers" with stratospheric I.Q.s would burst their brains trying to improve the profitability of this pathetic math. They invented pop-up ads, exit pop-ups, affiliate marketing, websites you couldn't escape without turning off your computer, "disguised" spam, and every other trick their greedy hearts could think of.

They wasted all this brain power and energy on all this stuff... which... it if worked... only made a hair's worth of difference in the results. They spent practically no time on the one thing which could have made a 10,000% PLUS difference. The one thing I'm talking about is...

Learning How To Write A

"Killer" Sales Pitch!

 

I don't give a damn what form of marketing you're in. I don't care how many tricks you know. I don't care how cheap you can buy your media. I don't care if the emails or newspaper ads or stamps and printing are FREE! Even if all this is FREE... if you can't write a "killer" sales message, it is all for naught.

And, there's nobody in the world who can write an absolute "killer" sales message like me.

And more importantly, there's no one on earth who can... teach other people... how to write a sales message like I can teach them.

Take David Allard for example. David ("Memphis Slim") Allard paid $27,000 to come down and spend a month with me. He came with a full stomach and, a completely empty head. Teaching him to write copy was like trying to win an arm wrestling contest against Godzilla. He fought me every step of the way. "Why the hell do I have to do this?" "What's reading all this crap got to do with anything?" "Why are you ignoring me?" (I wasn't.) etc., etc., etc.

But you know what? I TAUGHT that red-neck, inbred, tobacca chewin' (actually, I don't know if he really chews tobacco... but... it sounds good, doesn't it?) Elvis-lovin', good ol' Memphis country boy how to do it... and... right now I rank him right up there with the best-of-the best. (Hell, I'm not sure... but... I think I even gave him a tiny sense of humor.)

David just recently finished his training with me and, faster than a speeding bullet, he's already got about a dozen paying clients and many more in the pipeline. And I'll tell you what, Buckwheat...

If I Can Teach "Memphis Slim" To

Write World-Class Copy... Then...

I Can Surely Teach You!

 

I've got other people who've sent me non-refundable deposit checks to spend a month at my side. I will honor those requests but, I will accept no more. I can't. It takes too much out of me. But, what I can do (in a seminar setting) is speed-up your copywriting skills by years and years. If you're going to learn to produce good copy... you're going to have to pay.

That doesn't mean you have to pay me. But, you're going to have to pay in the "school-of-hard-knocks" (the most expensive school of all) or you're going to have to pay some other teacher (I guarantee he'll be inferior to me) or you're going to have to pay in YEARS of study... or... you can spend 2-1/2 days with me starting May 14, 15 and 16... and...

Get Yourself Off And

Running... RIGHT NOW!

 

And, what a great skill it is to know! Personally, I think it's the most valuable business skill there is to have. If you learn copywriting, you can make a fortune for yourself selling your own products. Or, you can be a "pure" copywriter, a "hired-gun" and work for clients from anywhere in the world. If you have to, you can reduce your overhead to a legal pad and a stub of a wooden pencil.

You can live where you choose, answer to no one, make as much money as your ambition allows, choose your own hours, work naked or in a tuxedo. You never have to commute. Work from home. Work outdoors by your pool. Work at the beach. You could be faced with all these choices because...

Good Copywriters Are Almost

Impossible To Find!

 

I know one guy in Florida who spends over $1,000,000 per year in copywriters. (He'd spend more if he could find someone to spend it on.)

Hundreds of direct marketing companies with monster budgets are desperate to find good copywriters.

Thousands of smaller companies are also desperate to find good copywriters.

Do you know how many people contact me every day hoping I will write copy for them? You wouldn't believe it. I turn almost everybody down. And guess what else?

I Have Almost Nobody

To Recommend To These People!

 

I taught braindead "Memphis Slim" to write brilliant copy. He's so good, I've decided to use some of his sales pitches as part of my "Motherload Collection". (Which, if you haven't ordered yet, you ain't really serious about learning how to write copy.)

My seminar to teach you to write copy is going to last 2-1/2 days. It's going to be different than my other seminars. Most of my seminars are "fun". This one won't be. I'm going to teach you until you are exhausted. I'm going to work you until you beg for mercy.

But, I'll tell you this: You are going to leave that seminar with something which is 10 times better than a doctor's or a lawyer's degree. And MUCH more valuable. You're going to leave with...

Knowledge Between Your Ears

Which Can Set You Up...

For Life!

 

John Reese's seminar has inspired me. He left everyone enhanced and massively enriched. He did something else I admired. He did NOT let everybody attend. There are some people who, if they are in the room... dull the charisma of the seminar.

I don't want those people. And, I don't want a lot of people. I don't know how many people will be reading this message. But, according to my Alexa rating and the number of people on my announcement list, it's a lot. Really a lot. A ton of those people are going to want to be at that seminar. But the hotel I've booked it at will hold only 47 attendees.

So, if you want to be one of them, please act fast. This seminar is being sponsored by GPP Investments. It costs $2,700 to attend. BUT, you get that $1,000 discount if you have already purchased my "Motherload Collection" of world-class marketing examples.

If you purchased my "Motherload Collection", all you have to send is $1,700.00. Make your check or money order (sorry, no credit cards) payable to: "GPP Investments" and send it to:

GPP Investments
640 South Miami Ave., Suite 1
Miami, FL  33130

If you are insane or something and you haven't purchased my "Motherload Collection", then you'll have to make your check or money order in the full amount of $2,700.00 and send it to GPP Investments.

The seminar is going to be held in Miami at the Marriott Miami Airport on LeJeune Road. It's about a 5-minute cab ride from the airport. And it's extremely urgent you sign up right now since you have to book your room by April 26 to get the special bargain rate Theresa worked out with them. It's usually $139 per night... but... she twisted their arms until they gave it to her at the rock bottom price of only $89 per night. You can either call their 800-toll-free number (800) 228-9290 or their direct phone number (305) 671-2602 to make your reservation.  The Hotel will have a special code for us that will be posted tomorrow for the "Gary Halbert Seminar"

The name of my seminar is...

How To Write A

Website Pitch That

Will Make You Rich!

It is going to be especially geared to people who have or want to have a website.

But make no mistake. Most of this info will be priceless for any kind of marketing you do. Direct mail. Newspapers. Magazines. Radio. TV. Whatever.

If you're a beginner, a seasoned pro or anything in-between, you need to be at this seminar. That's because you will get so much there that cannot be transmitted through written, audio or video material. You're almost certain to meet people who will be valuable financial contacts for life.

To hell with more of a sales pitch. If you can't get it from what I've already written, I need to be shot. And you, you need to be tortured and then shot.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S. Once again, to attend my seminar, send your check for either $2,700 or $1,700 (depending on if you've already purchased my "Motherload Collection") to: GPP Investments, 640 S. Miami Ave., Suite 1, Miami, Florida  33130.

If you still haven't purchased my "Motherload Collection", you can do that by sending your check in the amount of $297.00 made payable to "Cherrywood Publishing" at: 3101 S.W. 34th Ave. #905-467, Ocala, Florida 34474.

P.S.#2  I secretly taped John Reese's seminar and he has given me permission to give away those tapes... free... to anyone who attends my seminar.

Sorry, that was a lie. I just wanted to see if I could give John a minor heart attack or stroke. That shit weasel owes me a bone marrow transplant and he refuses to make good on his promise.

       Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Neurological Imprinting!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zslh_neurological.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

   Sometimes I wonder about myself.

   Have you ever seen a waterspout? They are small intense tornados that occur over water. I heard somewhere the winds in those things have been clocked at speeds in excess of 370 miles per hour.

   Waterspouts are terrifying and terribly destructive. One of the bravest men I've ever known was once reduced to a frightened, sobbing, begging-to-God little child when a boat he was in got overtaken by one of these fiends of nature. Down in the Keys, they called this guy "Little Boy" because he was the opposite. He was a huge, smelly monster of a man and sometimes, he would run my father's lobster boat (the "Black Cat") when my Dad had it down in Marathon. I can still remember standing on the dock at Faro Blanco Marina and looking up at him sitting confident and arrogant in the captain's chair on the flybridge with his huge forearms resting on the steering wheel. This guy was a throwback to the caveman days and there was no subtlety or artifice about him whatsoever.

   He operated almost 100% on the "lizard brain" imprinted somewhere in the cerebral cortex of all human beings.

   But that waterspout sure brought him to his knees. The way he told it, the boat turned into a whirling spinning nightmare of uncontrolled violence. It was as though the hand of God had reached down from the heavens, seized the boat and began shaking it more violently than a level seven earthquake does to a home which has been built under specs.

   I've been afraid of waterspouts ever since I first saw one and heard my father and others telling horror stories about them.

   Inevitably, I ran into one. I was on my dive boat, the "Original Sea Hunt" when one appeared out of nowhere about 100 yards off the bow. It was a little one, a "baby" just in the formative stages. At that point, it was a frenzied circle of wind maybe 12 feet high. Looking up to the sky, I could see another spout of wind coming down from a dark cloud and trying to link up with the birthing demon on the water. Maybe a weatherman will tell you that's not how it works but, that's how it was that day.

   I was up in the tuna tower and Randy Rode, a famous fishing guide in the Keys, was at the wheel downstairs. "Get up close to it, Randy," I hollered down. "Let's take a look at that sucker."

   He edged the boat closer.

   It was awesome. Spooky. The wind gave off a very powerful hissing sound like ten million rattlesnakes all getting ready to strike at the same time. "Go through it, Randy!" I yelled. "Charge right through that son-of-a-bitch!"

   "We can't Gary, we can't," he shouted back.

   Randy has lived around boats and on the water all his life. So did his father. And his brother. His late brother. Whose life was cut short by a sudden electrical storm when he was anchored right off the lighthouse tower at Sombrero reef. What happened was, a lightning bolt hit the tuna tower of the boat... fried everything on board... and... electrocuted Randy's brother. So, you can be sure, Randy has a healthy respect for what Momma Nature can do. Especially so, that day we were so far to hell and gone out in the Gulf Stream we were closer to Cuba than the U.S. when that damn waterspout came up out of nowhere. I kept yelling anyway...

"Randy, You Ain't Got A Hair
On Your Ass If You Don't Charge
That Bastard!"

   "Do it!" I yelled, "do it, run right through it!"

R-O-A-R...RRR...RRR...RRR!

   That "ain't got a hair on your ass" got him where he lived and he ran that boat right through the middle of that arrogant knot of intimidation. "AGAIN!" I yelled, "DO IT AGAIN!"

   He did. Over and over we charged right through that waterspout. And you know what? We broke that sucker up! Tore it to pieces. Moments later it was like it was never there. I looked up to the sky and that evil bitch trying to mate with the one on the water was gone too.

   Randy and I were faint with relief and giggling helplessly. Like little school girls.

   I read a quote once that goes something like this: "Fear knocked on the door and when courage answered, there was no one there."

   I suspect though, that idea ought not be stretched too far.

   This all reminds me of what I did at the beginning of my seminar on "How To Write A Sales Letter That Will Make You Rich" which just ended four days ago. I'm not going to tell you here what I made the attendees do. That would take up too much space. But, it sure jolted the hell out of them. They were stunned.

   They didn't know it  (I think) but, I was quaking in my boots when I told them to do it. I figured they might all walk out on me. Nevertheless, I wanted them to really "get it" ("it" being what makes writing really work) so I took the chance. I knew they would either abandon me or, they would start to understand.

   They got it. I made them do something they'll never forget for the rest of their lives. Just like I'll never forget that day out in the Gulf Stream when me and Randy Rode broke up that waterspout.

   I'm not a brave man. Not at all. But sometimes, some other persona takes over my body and makes me do things I'd normally be too frozen with fear for the pathetic, sniveling actual me, myself to do.

   Sometimes it works good too.

   I think I'm trying to make a point here but, for the life of me, I can't imagine what it is. Ah, to hell with it. I'll go on to something else. Listen: The centerpiece of the pass-out materials at my seminar was a collection of "Masterpiece Letters" which have generated jillions of dollars in sales and profits. That  collection of "Masterpiece Letters" is worth 100 times the entire cost of the seminar... and... what I urged my attendees to do... was... copy those letters out in their own handwriting. Why? So they'd actually have a neurological imprint on a cellular level of what it feels like... to actually write... "killer" sales messages.

   I urge you to do that also. Obviously, I can't reproduce all those letters here. However, I can give you the words of the headlines and/or opening sentences that were used to get 26 of those letters started. And, that alone, if you copy them in your own handwriting, will get your juices flowing and give you the beginnings of a superb neurological imprint that will serve you well the rest of your days.

   Let's boogie:

 LETTER A: A masterpiece from the legendary John Carlton who has just      written 16 "homerun letters" in a row!

World Famous Street-Fighter Will Give You A FREE GUN... Just To Prove He Can Take It Away From You Bare-Handed As Easy As Candy From A Baby!


Dear Friend,

   I want to send you a free gun. (It is identical in CAD-imaged specs to the standard military-issue "Red Style" training gun.)

   There are 2 things I want you to do when you receive it:

(1)  I want you to set the gun aside, and watch the four videos I will also send.

(2)  Then, I want you to give the gun to the toughest, biggest and most coordinated friend you have...  and ask him to:

	

Point The Gun At You
And Squeeze The Trigger!

   It is important you choose someone who is larger than you. Preferably, he should also have some skill at fighting. A black belt karate master would be perfect.

   Why am I asking you to do this? Because I want to prove to you that what you see on these video tapes will allow you to instantly take that gun away (bare-handed) and put him down on the ground before he can move a muscle to squeeze the trigger!

LETTER B: The beginning of a love letter to his wife Betty, from the late Joe Karbo:	LETTER C: Selling the current version of "7 Steps-To-Freedom" by Ben Suarez: 

Dear Betty,

   I love you very much.

I want to take care of you and our kids for the rest of your lives. There'll be good times and bad. But I'll try to do my best with what I've got.

   From time to time, I'll probably exasperate or annoy you. But I promise that you'll never be bored.

	

Dear Gary C. Halbert,

   I am writing to inform you about a 21-year, time-tested way to use your personal computer to make money right from your home; or, create multi-million dollar businesses from scratch without bank loans, venture capitalists, or selling stock.

LETTER D: Another Suarez promo:	LETTER E: Another Suarez promo: Beautiful, simple and deadly effective:

Dear Gary C. Halbert,

   I am writing to inform you about a truly simple way to access the worldwide Information Superhighway and a method to use your personal computer to make money right from your home.

	


Dear Gary C. Halbert,

   I wish to inform you that new research has finally uncovered the 5 causes of the lower abdominal bulge and how to flatten it like a board.

      

LETTER F: Ended up getting a priest a wife he'll never  understand:

Are you more than just another pretty face?

Generous Creative Businessman Wants To Find A Hot, Sexy Woman With A Good Sense Of Humor 

LETTER G: A "Killer from Karbo":	LETTER H: A Wall Street Journal sub pitch mailed successfully (with variations) for more than 18 years:


The Lazy Man's Way To Riches

'Most People Are Too Busy Earning A
Living To Make Any Money'

Dear Friend,

   I used to work hard. The 18-hour days. The 7-day weeks.

   But I didn't start making big money until I did less--a lot less.

	


Dear Reader:

   On a beautiful late spring afternoon, twenty-five years ago, two young men graduated from the same college. They were very much alike, these two young men. Both had been better than average students, both were personable and both--as young graduates are--were filled with ambitious dreams for the future.

   Recently, these men returned to their college for their 25th reunion.

LETTER I: Once in a blue moon, Jay Abraham does get a good idea:	LETTER J: Great grabber opening. Almost everyone I've ever met wishes they could write a book:

On October 1, The President's Sweeping Tax Bill Goes Into Effect. One Undervalued Investment Form Could Become The Greatest Single Beneficiary Of Them All...

Dear Valued Friend:

The congressional tax bill will affect more than just individual and corporate tax returns. The repercussions could be felt in everything from real estate partnerships and retirement plans, to savings accounts, stock portfolios, tax shelters and trusts.

	

Dear Friend:

   If you want to write and get published, I can't think of a better way to do it than writing books and stories for children and teenagers. Ideas flow naturally right out of your own life.

   

LETTER K: Bull's-eye!	Letter L: Anticipates resistance and meets it head-on:

Free $39 Stock Market Innovators' Survey Explains 24 Specific Ways To Boost Your Profits In Common Stock Investing.

Dear Investor:

We'll send you a copy of a very unusual guide to Stock Market Investing that features interviews with 12 of Wall Street's foremost investment professionals. These successful money managers and investment analysts present their combined set of 24 investment strategies that could make you a more intelligent more successful stock market investor.

	

Dear Music Lover,

Let me make a prediction--

I predict that many, many thousands of people who really love music will not mail in their vouchers for the 4 compact discs, cassettes or records we offer - simply because they're suspicious!

"There's got to be a catch," they'll say. "Getting up to $63.92 worth of compact discs, cassettes or records for nothing is just too good to be true."

LETTER M: Adapted from a great ad originally written to sell a book on how to bet on the horses and win:	LETTER N: Who in the world could not read this?


I've got to get this off my chest before I explode!

Dear Inside View Subscriber:

   I've been troubled, for a long time, with a major dilemma.

	

Dear Friend,

   I have a tax problem and I want you to be the beneficiary instead of the IRS...

LETTER O: Sometimes even I get lucky.  This one started Robert Allen down a path that made him 75 million richer!


Robert G. Allens
Challenge Systems, Inc.
2010 Jimmy Durante Blvd.,/Suite 224
Del Mar, CA  92014

9:20 a.m., Thursday
December 22, 1988
Del Mar, California

Dear Friend,

   As you can see, I have attached a penny to the top of this letter for two reasons:

1.  I have something very important to tell you and I needed some way to catch your attention.

2.  Since what I am writing about concerns money, I thought a little "financial eyecatcher" was especially appropriate.

My name is Robert Allen. On March 13th, my staff hand-selected and taught 189 people etc., etc.

LETTER P: Makes you feel special... and... intrigued:	LETTER Q: Excellent opening sentence even thought it was used by a truly scummy human being:

Dear Friend,

            This private invitation is going out to just a handful of people, yourself included. I hope you'll accept my invitation. But even if you decide not to, I want to send you a gift... Absolutely Free.

	Dear Friend,

   Would you be pleased if you made 50% of your portfolio every 12 months? Your money would double EVERY two years--you could start with $10,000 and become a millionaire very quickly--13 years to be exact. Start with $100,000 and you're there in 7 years.

LETTER R: Don't you just gotta know what this is all about?	LETTER S: CompuServe pitch to geeks:

Dear Mr. Halbert,

   Can one-third of all the millionaires in America be wrong?

	

Dear Friend,

If we're not mistaken, you're already quite familiar with computers and how to use them.

We believe you're also interested in ways your computer "know how" can help improve your life and the lives of those close to you.

LETTER T: I sure don't want to be an "also-ran", do you?	LETTER U: No kiddding, hmn?

Dear Friend,

   TWO YEARS FROM NOW, your business could be worth 2.5 to 25 times what it's worth today... Or you could fall into the list of business also-rans...

            The choice is yours.	

Dear Inside Sports reader:

   Did you know that the long-term performance of baseball cards beats the pants off of stock, T-bills, and rare coins?

LETTER V: Sure I would:	LETTER W: I wanna be special too:

Dear Friend:

   If money were no object, would you own Encyclopedia Britannica?

	

Dear Friend:

   The members of the National Audubon Society constitute only a fraction of one percent of America's population.

      But they are a very important fraction.

LETTER X: I guess I'm special after all: (NOTE: Personalization in the letter is a key factor in pulling in more orders.)


Gary C. Halbert
820 Ocean Dr. #308
Miami Beach, FL  33139

Dear Gary C. Halbert:

   The Publisher of Advertising Age asked me to make a very special subscription offer to a small, select group of advertising and marketing professionals. Your name was submitted to me as one who qualifies.

   

LETTER Y: A Thomas Hall classic. This one gets my vote for the best opening sentence of a sales letter ever written. If you can't adapt and twist this opening to whatever you're pitching, you're hopeless.	LETTER Z: See?

Dear Friend:

   If you would like to lose up to 63 pounds, then here is how I did it in Japan and why I think you can do it in America.

	

Dear Friend:

   If you would like to make a lot of money FAST in mail order - right from your own home, and do it now - here is how I've done it several times in the Orient.

   And why I believe you could do the same in America with information I'll give to you.

   

   Listen you smuck. Save this issue forever. Copy these openings over and over in your own handwriting. This will give you an invaluable, neurological imprint of great writing. Doing this will help you "own" these masterpiece sentences and paragraphs. They will live inside you, mutate while you sleep, multiply into other great ideas. Do not think you are too advanced, too smart or too experienced to benefit (enormously) from this simple exercise.

   You're not.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## My Newest

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2005/09-28-05.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Yesterday I had a "killer idea" about how I can help many of my subscribers make a great deal of money.

You know when this idea occurred to me? I swear to God it happened right in the middle while...

I Was Having A Root Canal

There I was, for two solid hours, with a small Puerto Rican person of the feminine persuasion constantly poking and scraping inside my mouth with very sharp steel objects... and... what pops into my mind is this idea.

Listen: I'm going to have a seminar. This seminar is going to be very different from any seminar I have ever given. Or anybody else has ever given for that matter. There is only going to be one speaker (me) at this seminar. And this seminar is going to be cheap enough for any of you who are not on welfare to attend. 

Yes, at this seminar you will learn quite a bit about copywriting. But that's NOT the BIG thing. The BIG thing is, I am going to teach you exactly what you have to know besides writing copy to make your fortune in direct marketing.

Not only am I going to do that, I am going to have a tiny handful of people at that seminar who can help you (if you need it) to finance your project, take care of your merchant account needs, print and do the lettershop work, set you up with phone answering services and fulfillment houses, etc.

Plus, at this seminar, I am going to deal with every attendee PERSONALLY and give each of them EXACT instructions on what they need to do if they want to be wealthy.

I'll give you a lot more information about this seminar later on. But right now, I want to tell you a few things... and...

I Need Feedback From My Readers!

First of all, I've already decided I want to have my seminar in either Miami or Orlando, Florida... or Phoenix, Arizona... or Los Angeles, California.

Secondly, I'm thinking it is going to start on either Friday, December 2 or Friday, December 9, and continue through the weekend.

But, my assistant Theresa, said when I gave the dates of previous seminars, many of you said you would rather come during the week (as opposed to a weekend). So if that's true, I will adjust the dates. But the seminar  will still be within that time frame (3-days in December).

Here Is What I Am Asking You To Do:

UPDATE: 2015 This Seminar Is Now Complete

You Can Order The Recordings By Clicking Here
(Please excuse the crude sales page but your order is completed on Paypal's Secure Website & the recordings are in stock and you can start listening to the first day instantly while we ship you the complete set)

If you have any questions you can write us

kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com

 

1) If you even think you might be interested in attending this seminar, I want you to email me right away at kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com .

2) In that email, tell me which city you would prefer the seminar be held. The only options are: Miami, Florida; Orlando, Florida; Phoenix, Arizona; or Los Angeles, California.

3) Tell me which Friday you prefer I start the seminar. The two choices are either December 2 or December 9.

4) And finally, tell me if you would rather attend my seminar if it was in the middle of the week (Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday) as opposed to a weekend (Friday, Saturday and Sunday).

I need your response RIGHT AWAY because we have to book the hotel early or there will be no vacancies for us.

Please do me this small favor. Just send me a really short email (at kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com) with the name of the city and the dates you prefer. By the way, sending me this email does NOT obligate you in any way to actually attend the seminar. I'm going to use it for planning purposes only.

My next newsletter will be much longer than this one. It will contain a very valuable marketing lesson. But right now, because of the root canal I had yesterday, I have an excuse to curl up into a fetal position for a couple days and suck as much pity as I can from everybody near me.

Thanks for your prompt reply to this request.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S. If you want to send me some kind words offering your condolences for the horrible, almost unbearable pain I endured yesterday, I would appreciate that also.

 

I'll be back at you within the next two weeks with a "killer" long copy marketing lesson. But for now, I'm going to take this opportunity to do some world-class sulking.

 

Peace.

 

 

	


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Greatest Marketing Breakthrough Comes Out Of The Closet!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zkld_out_of_closet.htm

From:
South Of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

It may sound grandiose to say so... but... I honestly believe this issue of my newsletter is going to change the world.

Five years from now, ten years from now, even 100 or more years from now, people are going to reflect back on the publication of this issue and realize... this was the day the greatest marketing breakthrough of the 20th century...

Came Out Of The Closet!

I wish I could take credit for this breakthrough. I can't. It was discovered by someone else. However, I can take credit, I believe, for being the first major marketing guru to recognize the importance of this discovery.

Enough foreplay. Let's get down to it. To help you understand the incredible importance (and money-making potential) of this breakthrough, I want you to image something. Let's pretend you are someone who is selling something via direct response advertising. It could be anything: golf clubs, diet pills, perfume, socket wrenches or whatever. But... just for the heck of it, let's say you're selling some sort of "paper and ink" product. It could be a newsletter. Or perhaps a book. Or maybe a report on how to lose weight or lower your golf score... or...?

Just to keep us rolling here, let's you and I mutually decide your product is a report on how to buy real estate without cash or credit.

Onward. Let's also say you've decided to use the 2-step method to sell your real estate report. Your plan is to run a lead-generating ad in high-circulation, national publications such as Parade, Modern Maturity, Reader's Digest, National Enquirer and so on. Here's what your lead-generating ad might look like:

 

Free Report Reveals How To Buy
Real Estate Anywhere In The U.S. Without
Using Cash, Credit Or Bank Financing!

To get your free copy, simply call my secretary (her name is Betty) and give her your name and address. You can call anytime Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. East Coast Time and the number is...

1-800-000-0000 

 

With me so far? Of course you are, right?

So... we mush on. Now, here's approximately what it will cost to run that ad in each of the publications mentioned above:

 

Name	Circulation	Size of Ad	

Cost


Parade	36,500,000	1/5 page	$110,000
Modern Maturity	22,450,000	1/3 page	$ 84,600
Reader's Digest	16,300,000	1/2 page	$ 72,900
National Enquirer	4,000,000	1/4 page	$ 11,600
TOTALS	79,250,000		$279,100

     

Whoa! That was like a bucket of ice water thrown in the face, wasn't it? Geez, we're spending almost $280,000... just to get our leads!

Oh well, takes money to make money, don't it?

But... we ain't done spending money yet. Hell, we've hardly gotten started. Our next expense is paying for all those incoming telephone calls. That expense will include the 800# toll charges, the salaries of all the people we need to answer the phones, our overhead, etc. Let's go easy on ourselves and say we're taking these calls for only a buck ($1.00) per call.

And... since the combined total circulation of all those publications where we are running our lead-generating ad is 79,250,000, let's guess we'll take in a total of about some 396,250 calls. (By the way, that's 1/2 of 1% of the total circulation.)

Hmm? 396,250 calls at $1.00 apiece is going to set us back another $396,250. Ain't I good at math?

But hey, this is so much fun... LET'S SPEND SOME MORE!

How? That's easy. The next thing we gotta do is mail a sales letter to all those people who phoned in. If we are very, very careful... we can do this for about fifty cents per letter. And thus... we've spent another $198,125.

Leapin' lizards! This is getting to be a nightmare, isn't it?

But... we gotta spend... MORE! MORE! MORE! For one thing, we've got to pay to have our report printed. For sure we can get that done for about $2.00 apiece. But, we've also got to pay for a container to ship those reports in, postage, the cost to address the mailing package, the cost of storing the reports until they are sold and so on.

Without putting too fine a point on it, let's say our cost of filling each of our orders is about $5.00.

Now, let's crunch some imaginary (but realistic) numbers and see what the bottom-line of this campaign is going to be.

Let's say our sales letter generated a 6% response which means we pulled in 23,775 orders. At $5.00 apiece to fill those orders, our fulfillment cost is $118,875. Add that to all our other costs and our total gross expenses equals $992,350.00.

And, since our selling price for our report is $42.00 ($39.00 + $3.00 S&H) our total gross income is $998,550 which means, after all is said and done, our net profit before taxes is...

$6,200!

Not much for all that work and expense, is it?

Stay with me. Let's see if we can make this dealybop just a tad more exciting. To begin with, let us say, just for the heck of it, that...

All Those Publications Let
Us Run Our Lead-Generating
Ad Totally Free Of Cost!

Wow! That saved us $279,100 right from the git-go, didn't it?

Let us further say, the phone company decided not to charge us anything for our incoming 800# calls... and.. our employees have agreed to work for us FREE!

Yahoo! We were shelling out $1.00 for every call we took in but now, since we don't gotta pay nothing (forget it, Miss Books; I make a helluva lot more writing my fractured English than you ever did teaching the formal version at Barberton High) that means... we saved another... $396,250!

Yeah! Yeah! Yeah!

Now for the cost of mailing our sales letters. For some crazy reason, all the people who called our 800# got together and decided to pay all our printing, addressing and postage expenses. So now, the cost of mailing our sales letter is...

Doodley Squat!

Nada. Zilch. Nothing.

Which means, Jellybean, we've saved yet another $198,250!

But wait! We still gotta pay to have our reports printed and shipped, don't we?

NO! NO! NO!

You see, all our customers, in a frenzied fit of generosity, have agreed to pay all our printing and shipping expenses... in addition... to what they have paid to buy the report.

Let's see. What we got here is NO advertising costs!... NO costs for our incoming calls!... NO costs for mailing our sales letters!... NO fulfillment costs!

No Nothing!

Hmm? Let's take a look at our new balance sheet:

       GROSS SALES:    $998,500

       GROSS EXPENSES:  $ - 0 -

       PROFIT:         $998,500

Just a dream, right? Nothing but a fantasy, ain't that so? An impossible scenario, huh?

Oh yeah? Hang on to your hats, chil'n because...

The Hot New Marketing Breakthrough
I'm About To Reveal To You
Makes The Above "Dream Scenario"
An Everyday Reality!

Do I have your attention?

Good. Here's the scoop: One of my closest friends is Mike Enlow, a world-famous private detective, who lives in a cabin on the Boguechitto River in the backwoods of Mississippi. Mike has grown weary of normal P.I. work so, some time ago, he decided to use his investigative talents to unearth new or little-know... but effective... advertising techniques.

And, in due time, he discovered something that blew his mind... and mine!

Hark unto me. It appears, about eight years ago, a man in California wrote a mystery novel. He then "uploaded" his book onto a number of computer bulletin boards or BBS's.

He also uploads a little "teaser" ad which encouraged people to "download" and read his novel.

Many people did. Many, many people did. And there they were, reading away, really getting into it. They downloaded three chapters and they couldn't wait to download the rest of it to find out how the book ends. But, when they got back to their computers, guess what message popped up on the screen?

"Notice. The rest of the text in this file has been encoded. If you want the password to decode the text, call (000) 000-0000 and use your MasterCard, Visa or American Express to pay for same."

What happened? Well, many of those people who downloaded the  first three chapters of his book just had to get the rest of it so... they called and paid for the "password." The result?

This Guy Sold 100,000
Copies Of A Blankety-Blank
Mystery Novel In Just
7-Weeks!

No advertising costs. No fulfillment costs. No nothing. He sold 100,000 books and... it was all profit!

What if that had been a diet book? What if he had done that this year when there are 100 times as many computer bulletin boards as there were in 1985?

Why doesn't he do it again? Probably because he's a computer nerd with no "marketing mindset" whatsoever.

Like this next guy who did something similar on a local BBS just a few months ago. What this guy did is, he uploaded a sales letter on his local computer bulletin board and 100 people downloaded his letter... and... 50 of those people gave him an order!

What did he do next? Nothing. He went back to some other academic computer nonsense.

What would you or I have done? I don't know about you, Cupcake, but, if it were me... and... I got a 50% response from my sales letter (which cost me nothing to deliver)... I'd want to know... are there any other computer bulletin boards onto which I can upload my sales letter?

Turns out there are. In fact, there are now...

60,000 Computer
Bulletin Boards!

Yahoo! Yahoo! Yahoo!

More: So it comes to pass, that Mike Enlow, after learning about the adventures of the above two gentlemen... well... Mike decides to try a little experiment on his own. What he does is, he uploads a little "teaser" ad onto one (1) underground bulletin board which reads...

"P.I. Secrets Revealed"

And what happened? Not much, just that... 148,710 PEOPLE DOWNLOADED A FULL ISSUE OF HIS NEWSLETTER AND... THEY... PAID TO DO IT!   

My God, do you know what it would be worth to me to have almost 150,000 people read an issue of this newsletter without me having to pay a penny to get them to do so?

Millions.

I feel faint.

Now listen: Not all computer boards will let you upload a message free of charge. One of the biggest is CompuServe and, when Ted Nicholas wanted to run an ad on that huge BBS, he really had to pay through the nose. In fact, CompuServe soaked Ted for a whopping...

$13.00!

That's right, he only paid a lousy thirteen bucks and he got back many, many, MANY TIMES what he spent!

Hey Buckwheat, are you starting to suspect we're on to something here?

Here's what you need:

(A)	A "teaser" ad saying something like "Free Report Reveals blah, blah."
(B)	A free report which is really a "camouflaged" sales letter.
(C)	A report, book, newsletter or some other "paper and ink" product.

Here's what you do:

(A)	You upload all of the above onto one or more computer bulletin boards.

  

Here's what your customers do:

(A)	They access a computer bulletin board and scroll through it until they see your "teaser" lead-generating ad.
(B)	They read the teaser ad and thus, sufficiently teased, they download the text file which the ad refers them to.
(C)	They read the text file they have downloaded which is, in reality, a sales letter, disguised as a report.
(D)	After reading the "sales letter" they've downloaded, they decide they want your report (or whatever) it describes and they call your office (or some answering service) and charge $39.00 (or whatever) to get the "password" which enables them to download your report (or whatever).
(E)	They access the bulletin board once again, punch in the magic password... and then... on their own nickel... they download your report or whatever it is you are selling.

PAY ATTENTION HERE!

Look what you've eliminated. There is:

NO COST for running the teaser ad!

NO COST for printing and mailing your sales letter!

NO COST for printing and shipping your report!

NO COST for any inventory!

NO COST for any office!

NO COST for employees!

NO NOTHING!

And guess what else? You don't even have to own... or know how to use... a computer to get in on all this.

That's the beauty of it. You see, there isn't a town in the U.S. that doesn't have hundreds of "computer nerds" (many of them high school kids) who can do all the "mechanics" of this computer stuff for you.

Is there more you need to know?

Yes, there is. You need to know how to find all of those 60,000 computer bulletin boards. You need to know exactly how to word (it's a little tricky) your teaser ad so it will be accepted by the owners of the bulletin boards. You need to know how to word your sales letter so it is perceived as a report. (Easy when you know the secret.) You need to know exactly what types of products can be sold most profitably on these BBS's. You need to know how to encrypt (scramble) the text of your paper and ink product. You need to know how to automatically change your password every day and how to do it via remote control. You need to know a certain secret of processing your credit card orders which will make sure you stay in business. You need to know... oh heck...

There's Really A Lot More
You Need To Know!

None of it is difficult. It's just there are certain "rules of the road" you must understand if you want to play in this game!

How do you learn these rules of the road? One way would be to stumble around learning this stuff all by yourself. When you get finished, you'll be a bit bloody and perhaps five years older... but... you'll have not spent much money.

Another thing you could do is invent a time machine, reverse time for a few months and attend either my "Birthday Bash" or my more recent early August seminar.

But, if you don't want to waste five years and/or you don't know how to invent a time machine... well then, you could, uh...

Buy The Tapes Of
My Last Seminar!

Wherein, my child, you'll learn everything you need to know to make a fortune from this dealybop I've just outlined for you.

Enclosed with this letter is a brown envelope. Inside that envelope is a description of what you will learn by listening to and watching the tapes of the seminar that just ended a few days ago. Also, in that envelope, is an audio tape you can listen to. When you do, you'll hear live segments of two of the most exciting parts of my August seminar.

And, of course, the letter in the brown envelope will also tell you how much I'm gonna soak you (less than you'd guess) for the tapes and how to order.

Let me be serious here for a moment. What I've just revealed to you is the most exciting marketing breakthrough of this century. However, if you want to take a ride on this baby, you'd better get on board now!

Here's why: Remember when "976 numbers" first came out? Back then, Gloria Leonard, publisher of High Society Magazine was raking in over a quarter million dollars... A DAY... from her 976 calls.

No more. Now there's lots of regulatory interference, competition, hassles with the telephone carriers, etc.

Don't get me wrong. You can still profitably play the 976# or 900# game but...

The Glory Days Are Over!

Same with TV infomercials. In the 80's I worked with a TV producer named Hal Morris who would sometimes shoot three infomercials... a day... for little more than pocket change.

Plus, airtime was dirt-cheap and there was very little competition. He almost couldn't lose... and... he didn't. He made...

Millions!

It's not so easy anymore. There's mucho competition. The cost of airtime is out-of-sight and... the "Feds" watch every infomercial like a hawk.

Yes, you can still make money in infomercials but, once again...

The Glory Days Are Over!

The same pattern is going to happen with computer bulletin board marketing. Four years from now, you'll still be able to make money with this form of marketing but...

1.	It's going to be highly regulated!
2.	There's going to be a ton of restrictions imposed on you!
3.	It's going to cost 10 to 100 times as much as it does now because the bulletin board owners are going to wise up and start charging an arm and a leg to all "information vendors" such as yourself!

But now? Right now... and probably for about the next 18 months...

You Can Run Like Crazy
With No Interference Or Competition
And... If You Hustle... You Can Become
Rich! Rich! Rich! Rich!
(very, very quickly)

Rip open that envelope. Read that letter. Order the tapes.

Get In On This!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


P.S.	

Don't worry if you don't currently have a paper and ink product.

Why? Simply because part of what you will learn from the seminar tapes is how to get all the paper and ink products you could ever want...

For Practically Nothing!

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Boron Letters - Chapter 2

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Boron/TChapter2.htm

The Boron Letters - Chapter 2

 

 

Wednesday, 6:57 p.m.
June 13, 1984  
 

Dear Bond,   

  Today I crossed some sort of invisible mental line. It happened when I went for my initial meeting with the people who run the camp here and found out that they are total jerks. What happened as a result of that is that instead of being down and depressed I just got tougher. Perhaps I'll write more about my new "get tough" attitude in a later letter but for now I want to get right back to this road work business.

  You know Bond, I can't stress how strong I feel that doing an hour's worth of road work is perhaps the number one most valuable habit you can cultivate. You see, if you start your day this way, it will get you off to a great start and vastly improve the rest of your day since it will drain off a lot of tension and anxiety and, in general, it will clear out your mind so you can think better all day long!
  Plus, after you get into it, it will make you feel great!
 
  So anyway, here are some other good health habits that I think you should get into right away.

  FASTING - You are, in my opinion, too young to go on any extended fasts but I really think it would be good for you to fast one (1) full day each week.

  Currently, I am fasting every Saturday. And, I intend to keep fasting one day a week (at least) for the rest of my life. When you fast, you begin to normalize your body functions and also, you develop a certain self-discipline that will help you in most other areas of your life. I intend to write a lot more about fasting later on but, for right now, I just want to encourage you to begin immediately to fast one day every week.
 
  Here are some tips. First of all, I suggest you do not tell other people what you are doing. Most people don't understand fasting and all you will get from them on this subject is a lot of ignorant babble. Secondly, I feel that you should do very little (or no) athletic exercise on the days that you fast. You see, your "Fast Day" is the day you set aside to give your mind and body a rest. You don't have to stay in bed all day or anything like that but you really should take it easy both physically AND mentally.
 
  What I do on my fast days is sort of kick back and read and putter around and, also, I have found it a good time to take care of those nagging little chores and errands that seem to accumulate during the rest of the week.
 
  In other words, I think you should do road work every morning to more or less "order your day" and fast every week in order to "order your week".
 
  You know what, Son? I am 46 years and one day old and the two things Ihave written to you about so far are the most important things I have ever learned.
 
  And just think. You can start right now before you are even 16 years old. God, what a head start you will have!
 
  Now, let's go on. The next thing I want to talk to you about is your diet. First of all, I believe that everybody who says breakfast is the most important meal of the day is dead wrong. In my opinion all you should eat before lunch is a couple pieces of fruit. Do you remember what I said to you in yesterday's letter? I said you should eat a piece of fruit (preferably a banana) before you start your road work.
 
  Well, after your road work, in my judgement, what you should do is take a shower, clean up, and get dressed and get your day started. And then, some time after that, before lunch, you should eat another piece of fruit. Actually, you should eat three pieces of fruit every day (except when you fast) and I think you can't miss with a banana, an apple or an orange. This way, you will get your potassium, your vitamin (and something called pectin, all of which is very good for you!).
 
  Incidentally, I have read, and I believe it to be true, that fruit is the prize food of man. Also, I believe that fruit is perhaps the number one food category that Americans need to eat more of.
 
  Watch your Mom. Watch other people. How much fruit do they eat? Very little I'll bet, and they are missing out on something very, very important.
 
  One reason, of course, is that fruit contains a lot of stuff that is good for you and, another reason is fruit, along with certain other foods, acts sort of like "nature's broom" and helps keep you cleaned out and mobilating.
 
  Anyway, as I said yesterday, I'm just warming up right now and I intend to write more on all this at a later date. But for now, it would be an excellent idea if you would start eating three pieces of fruit everyday and start right after you get this letter.
 
  You know Bond, in addition to everything else, you are the best student I have ever had and it is a real joy to teach all these things to you. Boy I sure wish my Dad had been able to do this for me but that's water over the dam.
 
  But maybe we can start a tradition here. A new "Halbert Tradition" whereupon the father's make it a point to pass down what they have learned to teach a new generation.
 
  It would be nice.
 
  Okay, here's more info on the subject of diet. What else should you eat? Well, one thing is sure: You should definitely eat a big bowl of some "bran type" cereal. Grapenuts is probably the best you can find in an ordinary grocery store and some health food stores have cereals that are even better.
 
  By the way, remember yesterday when I asked you to get a copy of "The Joy Of Running"? Well, here are two other books you should look for: "The Miracle of Fasting" by Paul Bragg and "Are You Confused?" by Paulo Airola. Many health food stores will probably carry both of these books.
 
  By the way, I don't want you to feel like you have to write to me as much as I am writing to you. I do want to hear from you (and often) but you are not writing a book like I am so no guilt trips are necessary.
 
  Let's take a break and talk about something else. There's an old tomcat around here at the camp named Crackers. Crackers is an arrogant cat. There is a lot of small game around here and Crackers like to catch these little critters and plays with them.
 
  For example, a week or so ago, I was doing my morning road work and I spotted Crackers as I was coming down the backside of "The Hill". Crackers had a little critter in his mouth that looks just like a baby chipmunk. These little guys are cute as hell and I have since (I'm getting tired) found out that they are, in reality, Antelope Ground Squirrels.
 
  Anyway, Crackers had this cute little creature in his mouth and he brought it over to me and then dropped it. The critter just laid there. Then, after a little while, Crackers would bat it around a little with his front paws. After a while, the critter began to stir and then it tried to run away. Crackers caught it again in short order and began to repeat the whole process. What I mean is that he would carry it in his mouth and then drop it and then torment it until finally the poor thing had no fight left.
 
  In other words, Crackers just messed with this little squirrel until he tormented the life out of it. And then, after all this, do you know what else he would do? What he would do is pick up the squirrel again in his mouth and toss his head back and throw it up in the air and then bat it back and forth while it was in the air like he was playing handball with it.
 
  Whatever. In any case, when I told some other inmate about this he said, "Yeah, but that stupid Crackers is nothing but a stupid punk. He always takes trash from the other cats around here. There's a black cat from over at the housing area that whips him all the time!"
 
  What's the point of all this? Probably, there isn't one but it reminds me of something I read once in an article in "The Herald Examiner" in which someone was quoted as saying:
 
"There is no justice. There is only power."
 
That's it for now.
  
I love you and good luck!
 Dad
 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

Go To Chapter 3
 

Click Here To View Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want To Be On My Newsletter Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Boron Letters - Chapter 3

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Boron/TChapter3.htm

The Boron Letters - Chapter 3

 

Thursday, 3:26 p.m.
June 14, 1984

 

Dear Bond,

Guess what?

Today I jogged "The Hill" two times without stopping!

Big deal, huh? Well, it is to me. Your old man is getting lean and mean.

Anyway, let's get started. First of all, I want to briefly review what I have suggested to you so far.

I have suggested that you do one hour's worth of road work every morning right after you get up for six days a week.

I have suggested you eat three pieces of fruit every day.

I have suggested you eat a large bowl of some bran type cereal every day.

Now, let's go from there. What else should your daily diet consist of? Well, for one thing, you should eat a lot of vegetables. What I suggest is that you get yourself some kind of baggie or plastic container and every night before you go to sleep I suggest you cut up a bunch of new veggies and put them in the container and then put the container in the refrigerator. Then, in the morning, when you are ready to leave the house, you can grab your raw veggies and take them with you to munch on them all day.

By the way, don't listen to all that garbage that says you should not eat between meals. You should eat between meals. In fact, six small meals is a lot better than three big ones. Actually, what is best is to have a little nibble whenever you get hungry. And this is a good way to eat your vegetables. Just carry your container with you wherever you go and eat some whenever you get hungry.

Incidentally, this is a habit that will go a long way in keeping you from feeling tired because it will tend to keep your blood sugar level at a more or less constant level.

WARNING! Don't depend on your mother or anybody else to buy or cut up your vegetables for you. You should, instead, develop a tough independent attitude.

You see, when you depend on others you give yourself an excuse for failure. "It's not my fault if she forgot to buy my vegetables." And so on. Don't set yourself up like this. Depend on yourself.

O.K. So far, we've got you eating fruit, vegetables and a bran type cereal. What else? Well, one thing else I think you should do is drink one large glass of non-fat milk every day. This will give you your calcium, some protein and some other good stuff.

And, what else? More protein, of course. As I said, you'll get some protein from your milk but it won't be nearly enough. You should also have at least one serving of some kind of lean meat or fowl.

Hamburgers are fine too.

Go easy on eggs. Two or three a week is plenty. They contain a lot of cholesterol and that's the stuff (along with fats) that can clog up your arteries.

Here's a couple more good ideas. (1) Buy yourself a box of bran flakes and mix two or three heaping tablespoons full into your cereal or whatever. (2) Get some protein powder. You can get this at most any health food store and I now believe it is a good idea (especially for a growing boy) to add some protein powder to his diet every day as "protein insurance."

What else should you eat? Actually, just about anything you want. I think it is a bad idea to ever forbid yourself to ever have ice cream or a soft drink or whatever. Just go easy and use a little common sense.

But don't worry. You see, if you keep up your road work and eat all the foods you should eat every day you won't have much room (or much inclination) to load yourself up with junk.

Let's take a break. I'm going to stop writing in a minute or two anyway because it is time for mail call. You know, Bondo, I've been thinking. I figure it will take me about one hundred letters to teach you the basics of what I want you to know. This should come out to between 500 to 1,000 legal pages of writing and these pages will form the core or nucleus of the book I want to write.

After I get this first part done I intend to take notes from various good books on exercise, diet, selling by mail, etc. and then, at this point, I should be able to sit down with all these letters and notes and then outline the book I want to write. After that, I'll write the first draft of the book. Then, after that, I'll review everything all over again and then write the final draft. I figure my timetable for the book to work out roughly like this:

1. Letters to Bond .................. 3-months

2. Notes from other books ........... 2-months

3. Outline .......................... 1-month (maximum)

4. First draft ...................... 2-months

5. Final draft ...................... 1-1/2 months

6. Polish ........................... 1-1/2 months

Total ... 11-MONTHS

Remember - these are very rough estimates. Actually, it is my goal to have the book finished after about ten-months of solid work which means I should (hopefully) be done by middle of next April.

We'll see. But one thing is true. This is the best place to write and get healthy I've ever been. I seem to get more productive every day.

Maybe, I'll have to commit some new federal crime every couple of years in order to get my books done!

Just kidding. Just kidding.

Strange. We usually have the mail by now but today it is late.

Oh well, I'll just keep waiting.

I was interrupted by mail call and now they are having "count." Count is simply when they count us to make sure we are all here.

They do this often.

Whatever. I was about to say let's get back to business. Now that I have (hopefully) got you doing your morning road work and eating more or less properly, I want to talk about other exercise in addition to road work.

Actually, I don't think I have to say a lot right now because you are probably doing just fine at Questar.

As I keep saying, I'm just warming up right now and I'll cover exercise in more detail later. But anyway, right now, I just want to say that I want you to concentrate on developing your arms.

All you really have to do are presses and curls. You know, I don't think it is desirable to have a body builder's body. Women, in general, are not attracted to to the exaggerated development of body builders and I personally don't like this type of physique either.

I think a man looks best (and I think most women would agree with me) when he is lean an hard - not bulging and overdeveloped.

However, I do think it is a good idea to spend enough time to develop strong muscular arms.

There are two reasons for this. First, of all, it is useful to be strong. Secondly, I think women are attracted to lean, hard men with strong muscular arms. And, thirdly, from a prison point of view, just having big arms can keep you out of a lot of trouble and I'll discuss this in more detail tomorrow.

Bye for now,

                                       I LOVE YOU AND GOOD LUCK!          

                                       Gary
                                       4:37 p.m.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

      

Go To Chapter 4
 
 

Click Here To View Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want To Be On My Newsletter Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Boron Letters - Chapter 4

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Boron/TChapter4.htm

The Boron Letters - Chapter 4

 

 

Friday, 11:05 AM

June 15, 1984

 

Dear Bond,

It was very nice for all of you to come up yesterday and bring me a birthday cake. It is good to know that you are all on my side and that I have a strong outside "support system."

I hope everybody understood why I wanted to leave before 7:30. If I hadn't left when I did I would have missed commissary and I wouldn't have gotten my supply of fruit for the whole week. Also, Doc, my best friend in Boron so far, was leaving the next morning (that's this morning; he's gone now) and I needed to spend more time with him.

But I do appreciate all of you and I just wanted to let you know.

Onward. Let's get back to the subject of physique. As I said yesterday, I believe the best physique for a man is lean and hard with strong muscular arms but not a bulging, exaggerated weight-lifter's body.

But why do I stress arm development so much? There are several reasons. As I said yesterday, one benefit is that it is just plain handy to have a long of strength in your arms. I also said the kind of body I have been touting is attractive to women and wins you respect from men.

Let's talk about that respect a little bit. The first thing I want to say is that a fat, sloppy or skinny and weak body tends to broadcast to the world that the owner of that body is lacking self-respect. The second thing is that tough animals have a tendency to prey on weak or helpless animals.

Here is something to remember: DEFENSIVE BEHAVIOR INVITES AGGRESSIVE ACTION!

What that means is that in life in general (and in prison in particular) there is very little sympathy for a weakling.

There's a guy here that I used to like but now he is starting to irritate me. In many ways he's nice old guy (I'll write more about him later) but he is serving a miserable 100 day sentence (maybe it's even less) and he shuffles around like a plantation nigger trying to please "Ol Massah." What's going on is plain and simple: He's scared.

Now, that's no sin. God knows I've been scared many times. But this guy stays scared when there is no need to be and it is very unattractive to watch.

Now, don't get the wrong idea and start worrying about this guy. I am very nice to him and so is everybody else. Everybody cuts him a lot of slack. This is a very "soft" place to do your time and all I want to do by describing this man's mode of behavior to you is to make a point.

The point is this: Bond, as you know, I am a very non-violent person and if this guy, by acting like such a pussy, can irritate me, just think how some hard vicious hard-nosed jerk in a real prison would be affected by him!

You see, this guy is sending out signals and those signals are saying, "I'm scared. I'm a pussy. I'm easy. I'm vulnerable." And so on.

And, unfortunately, not everybody in the world is kind or sympathetic. Some men just look for guys like this guy to prey on.

God, I'm long-winded aren't I? Anyway, finally to get to the point, what I'm trying to say is that it is far better to:

Rely On Your Own Strength

Instead Of Somebody Else's

Compassion!

And, to make the obvious point, you've obviously first got to have some strength in order to be able to rely on it.

You can't fake it. At least it's not a good idea. Especially in a prison or anywhere else where there are "mean streets". You don't need to "act tough"; you need to be tough.

Don't get me wrong. I'm not talking about being mean or macho or even pushy. I'm also not talking about pumping iron for hours a day or getting a black belt in Karate either.

You don't have to do all that. Plain simple toughness will do. You see most predators, when it comes to their victims, are very practical. Let's face it. If a couple of guys decide to go to the park and mug somebody, they aren't going to pick on some big gnarly looking guy. No, they will go after the victim who looks like easy pickup.

You know what? I believe that if you have two guys of the same height and same weight and you dress them both in a full suit of clothes that most of the time you will still be able to tell who is the toughest. You see, when you "get tough" not only does your appearance change; your "signals" change also. The way you move, the way you hold yourself, your reactions to outside stimuli - all of that changes.

So I want you to start getting tough and self reliant. By the way, I read a quote by John D. Rockefeller in "The Enquirer" today to the effect that nothing is as satisfying as self reliance and I totally agree.

But don't get confused. I don't want you to become a fighter in the physical sense as much as I want you to become a "Fight Avoider". And I want you to be able to avoid fights without losing your dignity.

And one of the best ways to avoid fights (I know this sounds kind of silly!) is to have big arms. Have you ever heard this comment? "Damn! Look at the arms on that guy! How'd you like to meet him in a dark alley?!"

Big strong arms. Start developing them right now. There are no drawbacks and many benefits.

Well, hopefully, by now now I've got you doing your road work, developing your arms and eating more or less properly. On that assumption I am going to temporarily drop this area and start writing about how to make money. We'll come back to health and fitness later though.

But tomorrow we'll start on money. However, right now, I want to comment briefly on one of my friends here. He is black and he was formerly in San Quentin for shooting two Santa Monica cops because he thought they were trying to get his supply of dope.

He's a heroin dealer from Hollywood and he is 55 years old and he is indeed a "career criminal". He thought she was going to OD from the heroin he had sold her. He's a fascinating guy and maybe we'll talk about him at another time.

Some guy was taken out of his hand cuffs yesterday. They found a bunch of money and pot in his hobby shop locker. Last night my friend Doc told me a story about this guy. It seems that some guy snitched on him and his wife and caused his wife to go to jail.

Well, anyway, for some reason this guy was in another institution and he was part of a line of guys who were hand cuffed and in chains when he spots the snitch.

What does he do? Simple. He grabs a nearby pencil (or pen, I forget) and tries to ram it into the snitch's brain by stabbing him in the eye. As it turned out, he didn't kill the snitch, but he did manage to blind him.

What the hell. It was just "his way".

I'm going to sign off now. Are you following my suggestions?

I love you and Good Luck!

Love,

Dad

7:42 p.m.

 
Go To Chapter 5

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Boron Letters - Chapter 5

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Boron/TChapter5.htm

The Boron Letters - Chapter 5

 

 

 

Saturday, 10:02 a.m.

June 16, 1984

 

Dear Bond,

How's my favorite youngest son? I'm sitting here waiting for the phone and I decided to start writing so let's push forward.

Today, we are going to get started on the subject of how to make money. Usually, when someone asks me what is the #1 big secret to making money I tell them they should get involved in whatever excites them the most.

This is good advice. Money, in my opinion, especially big money, is most often a by product of enthusiasm. If a person, secretly in his heart, wants to be an architect, he shouldn't go into selling real estate, for example, just because he has heard that that is where the money is.

The money is where the enthusiasm is. Please remember this! Remember it also, when, in the future, you need to hire someone. Always look for the most enthusiastic person, not necessarily the most qualified.

When it comes to making money, attitude is the most important thing of all. That's why you are so appreciated at Advanced Management. You have exactly the kind of attitude that a sharp employer looks for. So remember all this and when it is your turn to hire someone. Usually, Bond, when I discuss making money with someone, I spend a lot more time on attitude because it is so important. But you already have a great attitude so I'll save any further discussion for later.

Also, you already seem to have a natural talent and enthusiasm for direct marketing so I am going to directly proceed to that area.

Now, pay attention. The very first thing you must come to realize is that you must become a "student of markets". Not products. Not techniques. Not copywriting. Not how to buy space or whatever. Now, of course, all of these things are important and you must learn about them, but, the first and the most important thing you must learn is what people want to buy.

And it's easy. You see, the way to deduce what people want to buy is to simply observe what they DO buy!

It's as simple as that. But be careful. You want to know what people actually DO buy, not what they SAY they buy.

Here's a true story. Once upon a time a beer company did a survey to find out which of their products customers preferred and you know what? To their astonishment they found that 80% or so of the people they surveyed preferred their premium beer as opposed to their regular beer.

Why were they astonished? The answer is easy. You see, their sales figures were showing that most people bought their regular beer and NOT the premium.

What's going on here? Well, for one thing, it is very common. You see, the surveyed people were trying to give the "right" answer and so they put down as an answer the beer they felt they SHOULD DRINK.

It happens all the time. But pity any poor fool who decides to go into the brewery business based on this kind of erroneous marketing information.

Here's another example of how people struggle to give the "right" answer. How many people do you know who read the "National Enquirer"? Not many huh? Almost everybody I talk with really puts down the "Enquirer". (Even here in Boron) But guess what? The "National Enquirer" is the largest selling newspaper in the world - BY FAR!

Yet nobody reads it. At least not here on earth. It must be all those Martians.

What do people read? I'll bet if you took a survey you would discover that the most read book of all is the Bible.

It's just not true. Hardly anyone (percentage wise) has actually read the Bible. A lot of people own a Bible, a lot of people DISPLAY their Bibles, some people are given to swearing on a Bible but damn-few people have actually READ the Bible.

And who can blame them? The Bible is repetitive, hard-to-read and most of it is deadly boring.

Yet people feel guilty and, in their attempt to give the RIGHT answer, they will say (and often convince themselves) that the Bible is their favorite reading material.

You want to know what some people would consider a sickening statistic? Here it is: MORE PEOPLE READ THE "NATIONAL ENQUIRER" IN ONE SINGLE WEEK THAN HAVE EVER READ THE BIBLE IN THE LAST 2,000 YEARS!

Sorry. But that's the way it is. And, if you want to be a top notch marketing man you have to know how it is. How it really is. Not how people (or you) wish it was or how they think it is. No. You must become a "student of reality".

How do you find out what people actually buy? And, more particularly, how do you find out what they buy via direct response? The "SRDS Direct Mail List Book". Then what you should do is turn to the CONSUMER LISTS section and just start reading. It will be quite an adventure. You should pay special attention to the numbers involved and the descriptions of the lists.

Let's see if I can find an example. Aha! Here are a few that look very interesting under section 561 which is the classification for INVESTORS.

 

Diamond And Ruby Buyers

Description: Investment counselors,
brokers, dealers and individuals
who have purchased diamonds and rubies.

AVERAGE UNIT OF SALE  =  $5,000.00

QUANTITY                         =        3,979

 

Wow! Let's think about this for a minute. Here are almost 4,000 people who, according to this information have spent an average of $5,000.00 to buy diamonds and rubies. Let's see now... $5,000 apiece times 4,000 buyers equals - uh 20 MILLION DOLLARS!

Think about it. What else would they be likely to buy? How about more of the same? (That's usually a good bet.) Maybe (probably) they'd be receptive to a hot new diamond offer.

Hmn?

Here's another:

 

Diamond Buyers And Enquirers

Description: People who purchased
or inquired about purchasing
diamonds. 60% buyers.

AVERAGE UNIT OF SALE   =  $5,000.00

(always pay special
attention to the average
unit of sale - the higher
the better!)

QUANTITY                          =      52,000

 

Let's do the numbers on this one:

52,000 x 60% buyers = 31,200 actual buyers... and...

31,200 buyers x $5,000 comes to:

ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY SIX
MILLION DOLLARS

Hot damn! Figures like that will get your greed glands going won't they?

More later.

I Love You and Good Luck!

Dad

P.S. Believe it or not, I didn't know about the above lists until just now. I really and truly turned to them totally by accident. Isn't that something?

 

Go To Chapter 6

 	 
 	 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Boron Letters - Chapter 6

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Boron/TChapter6.htm

The Boron Letters - Chapter 6

 

 

Sunday, 10:16 a.m.

June 17, 1984

 

Dear Bond,

No messing around. I'm going to dive right back into the subject of becoming a "student of markets".

As you know, once in a while I give a class on copywriting and/or selling by mail. One of the questions I like to ask my students is: "If you and I both owned a hamburger stand and we were in a contest to see who would sell the most hamburgers, what advantages would you most like to have on your side?"

The answers vary. Some people say they would like to have the advantage of having superior meat from which to make their hamburgers. Others say they want sesame seed buns. Others mention location. Someone usually wants to be able to offer the lowest prices.

And so on.

Anyway, after my students are finished telling what advantages they would most like to have I say to them: "O.K., I'll give you every single advantage you asked for. I, myself, only want one advantage and, if you will give it to me, I will whip the pants off of all of you when it comes to selling burgers!"

"What advantage do you want?" they ask.

"The only advantage I want," I reply, "is A STARVING CROWD!"

Think about it.

What I am trying to teach you here is to constantly be on the look out for groups of people (markets) who have demonstrated that they are starving (or at least hungry!) for some particular product or service.

How do you measure this hunger? Well, fortunately, if you are working with mailing lists, it is rather easy. Let's take an example: Suppose you want to sell a book on how to invest money and you have created a direct mail promotion designed to sell this book. Who do you mail your promotion to? Here are some possibilities:

Possibility #1 - We could mail it to people whose names and address we get right out of a telephone book.

Comments: This is a terrible idea. There are too many non-prospects in this kind of group. The only thing in common that people in the phone book have is that they all have a phone. Some of the people won't have any money to invest. Some of them never purchase anything by mail. Some of them are too busy (or uninterested) to even read your letter. Some of them don't even know how to read! In short there is too much waste circulation. This is like shooting with a shotgun instead of a rifle.

Onward.

Possibility #2 - We could mail our promotion to people whose names and addresses we get from a phone book but only to those people who live in high income areas.

Comments: This is a little better, but not nearly good enough. High income areas are, incidentally, easy to identify because several companies have compiled statistics on every zip code in the United States and they can tell you with great accuracy the average income per person in each zip code. They can also, by the way, tell you the average education level; average age, how much they spend on automobiles and a bunch of other stuff.

However, as I said, this still isn't nearly good enough. For one thing, not everybody who lives in a high-income area has a high income. Some of these people might be the maids or gardeners or some other type of servant. (Come to think of it, I'm not so sure that quite a few gardeners aren't wealthy.) Some of these people may have money but are not interested in investing. Some of them may always buy books from a bookstore and never by mail. Some of these people can't read English. (There are more and more rich foreigners in our country.) Some of them may have money to invest but are only interested in investing in areas in which they already have expertise.

Whatever. Once again we are shooting with a shotgun instead of a rifle. Once again, too much waste circulation.

Let's see if we can do a little better.

Possibility #3 - We could mail our piece to a group of people that we are relatively sure have above average incomes. Like doctors. Lawyers. Architects. Top executives. Accountants. Owners of expensive homes. Owners of Rolls Royce automobiles.

And so on.

Comments: Not bad. We are now getting into areas where we at least have a chance.

At least we are relatively sure that most of these people have a high enough income to maybe be interested in investing. Whether they are interested or not, we can't know, but at least, if they are, they probably have the ability to do some investing. This group of people is certainly more likely to respond to our pitch than the first two groups but, as you shall see, we can do a lot better.

Possibility #4 - We could mail our promotion to a list of upper income people who are proven mail order buyers. Buyers of what, you ask? Actually, for the purposes of selling by mail, it is generally true that mail order buyers of anything are better than almost any group of non-mail order buyers. And, in this case, we have added the extra qualifications that they must be wealthy mail order buyers.

Comments: Now we are getting down to business. This is the first group I have described that gives us a reasonable shot at success. Not bad. Not bad at all. But now, let's stop fooling around and go for the hill!

Possibility #5 - We could mail our promotion to a group of wealthy people who have ordered some other investment book by mail.

Comments: Bingo! Now we're cooking. What could be better? They are upper income. They are mail order buyers. And, they have purchased BY MAIL a product similar to ours. What could be better? This is just about as "hot" of a list as we can get! Or is it? Actually, it is not. Let's keep trying.

Possibility #6 - We could mail our promotion to a list of wealthy people who have purchased (by mail) a product similar to ours - several times!

Comments: Yeah! Now we're cooking! Just imagine. They're MO buyers. They're wealthy! They've purchased (by mail) a product similar to ours. AND they are repeat buyers of this type of product. How sweet it is! Can it get any sweeter? Yes, dear Son, it can! Read on.

Possibility #7 - We could mail our promotion to a list of wealthy people who have purchased (by mail) a product similar to ours - several times AND WHO HAVE PAID BIG MONEY FOR WHAT THEY BOUGHT.

Comments: Goody. These people are very close to the "crème de la crème" of lists we can mail to. But wait! Why do I say they are "very close" to the best? After all, what more could we ask for? Hold on! We're not done yet.

But not quite. Just keep reading.

Possibility #8 - We could mail our promotion to a list of wealthy people who have purchased (by mail) a product similar to ours - and who have done so repeatedly - and who have paid big money for what they purchased - AND WHO HAVE VERY RECENTLY MADE SUCH A PURCHASE!

Comments: This is almost as good a list as we can get. It is certainly the best list we are likely to be able to rent.

But not quite. Just keep reading.

Possibility #9 - We could mail our promotion to a list of people who have all the characteristics of possibility #8 AND WHO OUR FRIENDLY LIST BROKER TELLS US IS WORKING LIKE CRAZY FOR OTHER MAILERS WITH PROMOTIONS SIMILAR TO OURS.

Comments: For a variety of reasons, many lists that should work don't. Who knows why? It really doesn't matter why. What matters is that a list is or is not responsive. And the best way to know what lists are hot is to have a good relationship with a good honest broker. In fact, if you have a good relationship with a good broker one of the things he will do (because it is to his financial advantage) is to keep an eye out for hot lists that are likely to work for your offers. And now, with this last list we have finally and truly identified the best list you can mail to.

Almost.

Yep. We can still do better!

Possibility #10 - There is one group of people who will respond even better than all the other 9 groups I have described. Can you guess what list this will be? Think about it a minute and then turn the page for the answer.

 

THE BEST LIST OF ALL IS
YOUR OWN CUSTOMER LIST!

 

Comments: All other things being equal, your own customers should respond far better than any other list you can get. Of course there is one caveat. THEY MUST BE SATISFIED CUSTOMERS!

That's it for now.

I Love You and Good Luck!

Dad

 

Go To Chapter 7

 	 
 	 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Boron Letters - Chapter 7

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Boron/TChapter7.htm

The Boron Letters - Chapter 7

 

 

Monday, 10:30 a.m.
June 18, 1984



Dear Bond,

Let's get right back into the subject of becoming a student of markets, especially mailing lists.

My last letter gave you a beginning insight into what makes a list more responsive. Let's review a few conclusions we came to based on the data in yesterday's letter. You will remember, of course, that I said that, as a general rule, any list of proven mail order buyers will out perform any list of non-buyers.

Now, as another general rule, there are three main guidelines you can rely on when you are picking lists to test.

These three guidelines are recency, frequency and unit of sale. A brief explanation follows:

Recency - The more recently a person has purchased (by mail) something similar to what you are selling, the more receptive he will be to your offer. Get 'em while they're hot! In fact, always check to see if the list you are interested in has "hotline buyers" and see if you can rent them before anybody else. Hotline buyers are the most recent buyers of all. Sometimes they will be 90-day hotline buyers or even 30-day hotline buyers. These names are extremely good prospects!

Frequency - The more often a person buys a particular item, the higher his desire for that type of production service. It just makes sense. If you are selling a book on skin diving and you can find a list of people who have purchased several other books on skin diving, then you know he is interested in the subject and will be a likely prospect to buy your book.

Unit of sale - Once again, we have a guideline that just plain makes sense. After all, a person who recently paid $100.00 for a bottle of diet pills is probably a hotter prospect for diet type products than a person who has only paid $10.00 for a bottle of diet pills.

You know, Bondo-Dog, people don't always put their money where their mouths are; but they do nearly always put out their money where their true desires are.

Recency, frequency and unit of sale: All good guidelines for evaluation of a mail order list. And, in my opinion, of the three guidelines, RECENCY is, by far, the most important of all.

Now, let's discuss some other ways of finding out what people like to purchase by mail. In addition to mailing lists, there are a number of so called "hot" mail order publications. These are the newspapers and magazines that mail order companies advertise in over and over. You should make it a point to discover what these publications are and get copies of them and become very familiar with them. You should pay attention to their editorial content and pay special attention to the mail order ads they carry.

There is a newsletter out of New York City called the "Gallagher Report". This newsletter covers the world of advertising and once each year they publish a special edition that lists all of the major magazines and it ranks them by circulation.

You should get a copy of this special issue (ask Eric) and then get copies of the top 100 magazines and go through them and find out which ones carry a lot of mail order ads.

I have just come in after visiting with you, Kevin, Blade and Z and a digression at this point might be productive. Z, as I am sure you will agree, probably feels a certain sense of relief that, because of the circumstances, she has more or less gotten her own way in regards to her ad. It's really too bad. Too bad for her! You have just seen an excellent example of why I generally treat clients with an iron fist. Z pulled this same stunt when she had her other ads written (by other people) and the ads were miserable failures.

If I were on the street I would have handled this situation in a totally different way. In fact, after about 5-minutes I would have told her to get lost and that she either gets out of my face or else she can write her own ad.

The lesson here concerns control. Can you imagine how disastrous it would be if a patient could tell his surgeon how to do the operation? Or, if an athlete could tell his coach how to do his job?

I could go on and on. But isn't it ridiculous! A client pays me big money to write an ad and then they want to tell me how to do it!

It happens all the time. But not with me. At least not when I am on the outside. You see, part of the reason I am in so much demand is that I am so hard headed. Clients, although they would never admit it, most often feel relieved with someone who takes a "don't you dare mess with my copy" attitude.

As you know, I couldn't make a scene in the visiting room but you can be sure that the next time I talk with Z that I am going to quietly but firmly put a lot of pain in her brain.

Here's another illustration of the importance of control. When Blade took me aside, one of the things he explained to me was that (name deleted) in Vegas wants to put the commissions into another project and delay paying me.

Now, here's the thing. (Name deleted) is one of the good guys. And, sadly, even the good guys have trouble living up to their agreements when it comes to money. That's one of the reasons I try to structure my deeds so that I get paid often. You see, when there is big money involved it is very hard for the clients to write those checks.

And, what really makes it hard for the client is that he usually believes that he doesn't need you anymore since he already has the ad.

Ah, there's a lesson here but, also, I'm blowing off steam. Let's get back to becoming aware of markets. Right here, what I want to do is encapsulate one of Halbert's Rules of Marketing Success. It is:

 

Sell People What They
Want To Buy!

 

So obvious, so overlooked and so important.

Now one thing I haven't mentioned so far is that you want to be on the lookout for ads and direct mail pieces that you see over and over. What this means is that whomever is running the ad has hit a nerve.

And, a good way for you to make money is for you to hit that same nerve only do it better.

But, and I know I'm being redundant, the most important thing to do first is to locate those hot buttons. You don't have to guess. You don't have to wonder. You don't have to ask people or take surveys.

 

All You Have To Do Is Observe!

 

Observe the ads that keep repeating. Observe the size of the mailing lists available for rental on different product areas. Observe the direct mail pieces that keep getting mailed out month after month and sometimes year after year.

More tomorrow.

I Love You and Good Luck!

Dad

 

Go To Chapter 8

 	 
 	 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Boron Letters - Chapter 8

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Boron/TChapter8.htm

The Boron Letters - Chapter 8


 

Tuesday, 10:52 a.m.
June 19, 1984



Dear Bond,

Another digression. I am tired. I was upset after last night's visit plus my roommate was snoring like a buzzsaw last night. (Poetic justice)

Anyway, what should a person do when he is tired? Should he stay on his program or should he rest? It all depends. I am skipping lunch today and I am writing this on my lunch hour. If it turns out, that in my opinion, I am just spinning my wheels, I will stop writing and start resting.

The same applies to my road work which I will start a couple hours from now. You see, the way I look at it, if you halt your forward progress every time you get a little tired or irritable or whatever; then you are suffering from a lack of discipline. On the other hand, if you keep pushing when you are chronically tired or really sick, then you are a fool. A lot of men do this because of a misplaced sense of macho.

It's not macho, it's stupid.

So what I do when, like today, I don't feel like working, is that I start working anyway and I pay attention to what signals my brain and body is sending me. Then, after working a while, if I honestly do start to feel worse I will stop and quit. However, if I just feel a little bit crummy (as I do now) I keep on plugging along.

As someone once said, "Most of the world's work is done by people who didn't feel much like getting out of bed."

So true.

By the way, I am having coffee and V-8 Juice. I am a big fan of V-8. It's cheap, it only has 36 calories, and, when you pour it over a tall glass of ice cubes it really tastes great.

Give it a try. It's a nice alternative once in a while to eating or having a soft drink.

Now, back to marketing. You know, one of the remarks I hear all the time when I ask someone what they think of one of my ads goes something like this: "Oh, I'm not a good person to ask. I never buy anything by mail."

Really. Mail order sales run into the billions of dollars each year but rarely will you run into anyone who admits to being a mail order buyer.

Personally, I think all these non-mail order buyers are the same people who don't read the "National Enquirer."

Once again, it must be all those Martian invaders.

What I am doing here is redundantly making a point and I am going to be even more redundant. Here's another little glimpse into one of the vagaries of human behavior: Once I asked at class at USC how many of them preferred to go to plays more than movies.

Lots of people raised their hands.

"Bull!" I said to them. "You are all fooling yourselves and I'm going to prove it." I then asked for a show of hands of those people who had seen a play in the last week or so.

No hands.

I then asked to see the hands of people who had seen a movie in the last week or so.

Many hands.

Bond, this phenomena is common. All of us, including thee and me, have a slightly shrewd idea of ourselves. We often try to convince others and ourselves that we are something we are not, something we have an idea we "should" be.

Therefore, truth, my good son, can be determined NOT by how people use their mouth but rather how they use their wallet.

I want to burn this message into your mind. Be skeptical of what people say. Be skeptical of surveys. Of questionnaires. Instead, believe in numbers. For example, if everybody you talk with says they like plays more than movies and yet the numbers say that 10,000 times more people buy movie tickets then you believe the numbers!

If it looks like a duck, walks like a duck and quacks like a duck - guess what? It's probably a duck!

So keep reading the "SRDS" book. Keep looking at hot mail order publications and repeat mail order ads. Get yourself on as many mail order lists as possible. (Get a P.O. Box.) Watch the offers you receive. Anything you are going to buy anyway, and you can purchase by mail - do so.

Keep your finger on the pulse of the industry. Stay aware. Keep awake to the possibilities of overlooked marketing opportunities. After a while you will develop a sixth sense.

Here's a true story that illustrates what I am trying to get across. It has long been my belief that a lot of money can be made by making offers to people who are at an emotional turning point in their lives. For example, when they have just had a baby, just gotten married, just lost a loved one, just gotten a raise, just filed bankruptcy, just purchased a new car, and so on.

Well, guess what? For a long time I have been wishing there was a way to get a list of pregnant women. Now there is! While looking through the "SRDS" I discovered that now you can rent 120,000 new names of pregnant mothers every month. Oh boy! Well, I got myself a hold of an M.D. who is very skilled in research in the areas of human and animal intelligence and I have commissioned him to write a report titled "How To Raise Your Child's IQ Before It Is Even Born!"

This is exciting. Let's talk numbers. I plan to sell the report for $19.95 + $2.75 postage and handling. (Total $22.70) My fulfillment costs will probably be (including the 10% I pay the doctor) about $5.00. This means that every sale will yield a $15.00 contribution to overhead. Now, let's assume I'll get a 5% response. This means, of course that out of every 1,000 letters I mail I will be receiving a total of 50 orders at $22.70 or a total gross income of $1,135.00. Now let's deduct $5.00 per order for fulfillment (which is $5.00 x 50 orders or $250) from this $1,135.00 and, as you can see we will have $885.00 left. Now, of course, we must also deduct the cost of the mailing. I figure it will cost (including list rental) about $400 per M (thousand) to mail a promotion like this. Thus, when we deduct this $400 from the $885.00 we have left to play with, you will see that we have a profit of $485.00 for every thousand letters mailed.

Hot damn! I'm cooking now! I'm glad I decided not to rest.

Onward. Let's see now $485.00 profit per M times 120M equals a total profit of $58,200.

 

EVERY MONTH!

 

 P.S. I'm sitting here with Bobby B and I have just discovered how to get Paul Harvey on my new radio. What I get is a very weak signal from KABC but, my other co-worker Jack (The Plantation Nigger) (he's really white) has just shuffled over. Jack told me earlier, that you can get Paul also at 2:30. Maybe I'll interrupt my running and see if I can get him then.

I Love You And Good Luck!

Dad

 

 	 
 	 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Boron Letters - Chapter 9

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Boron/TChapter9.htm

The Boron Letters - Chapter 9

 

 

Wednesday, 10:30 a.m.
June 20, 1984



Dear Bond,
 

Well, kiddo, I don't exactly know what I'm going to write about today so what I am going to do is just keep putting words down on paper until I start to get some direction.

It occurs to me that I need to tell you that just because I told you how to pick the very best lists doesn't mean that the less responsive lists are not valuable. Never forget the coat-of-arms promotion. That was mailed (and very successfully) to names taken from the white pages of the telephone book.

I guess what I want to start on today is how to think about developing a mail order campaign. And, as I said earlier, from now on a good part of your working life should be spent reading the "SRDS" list book and newspapers and magazines that carry a lot of MO advertising.

Hey, by the way, I jogged the hill 4 times (non-stop) yesterday!

Well, anyway, I myself, have recently been thumbing through the "SRDS" book and an interesting idea has occurred to me. There is, as you shall see when you start using the book, a big section devoted to compiled lists. All compiled lists are, by the way, names and addresses of people or businesses or institutions or whatever that have something in common.

For example: brick layers, architects, chiropractors, churches, businesses who do a $500,000 gross every year, business who do $1,000,000 every year, YMCA's, police stations, veteran purchasing agents, etc., etc.

O.K., here's my idea: What if you took the following headline:

How You Can
Make Extra Money

and then you customize it to something like: "How Architects Can Make Extra Money" or "How Churches Can Make Extra Money" or "How Chiropractors Can Make Extra Money" etc., etc.

Now, let's say that we hire somebody to write a little report for us. The first part of the report tells about certain little-known techniques for making and investing money that anybody can use. The second part of the book would contain money making techniques that would uniquely apply to a particular group of people such as architects or chiropractors. (By the way, chiropractors are greedy so they would be one of my first targets!)

Anyhow, let's say our report is finished and so, now, we write a letter incorporating the idea that I previously expressed in those sample headlines. Perhaps the letter would start out like this:

 

**************************************************************************

Dr. Charles L. Davidson
1016 Ocean Ave.
Santa Monica, CA 90402

Dear Dr. Davidson,

     I am writing to you because I have discovered a great new way for doctors of chiropractic to make a great deal of extra money.

It's really incredible and I am surprised no one has thought of it before. Here's what it is all about: blah, blah, blah.

**************************************************************************

 

The letter would, of course, go on to describe the report and ask him to buy a copy.

Now, let's supposed we sell the report for $20.00 and let us further suppose that when we mail our letters we find that we get a very modest 4% response.

Now for the numbers. I'm going to stop here a moment and check the "SRDS" and see how many bone snappers there are.

That took 4 minutes. There are more than 33,000 chiropractors we can mail to. Now, let's figure it will cost us $400 per thousand (M) to mail out our letters. That's $400 per M x 33M or a total mail out cost of $13,200. Now at a 4% response we will get 1,320 orders. Multiply 1,320 orders times $20.00 per order and we will have total sales of $26,400. When we subtract our mailing cost of $13,200 from our sales revenue we have left $13,200. Now we must also subtract our cost of filling the orders. Since it shouldn't cost more than $4.00 apiece on the outside our total fulfillment cost will be $4.00 per order times 1,320 orders or $5,280.00. When we subtract this figure from the $13,200 we have left we will be left with a net profit of $9,920.00.

Not a fortune but not to be sneezed at either. Especially when you consider that what I have described is less than 30-days work.

But, if this idea actually works, we have something much more valuable than our $9,920.00 profit. Yes indeed, my boy. You see, if this idea works what we have is a "winning formula"!

You see, my son, what we can do is keep the first section of our report the same and then customize the last half of the report (it will probably be more like the last 1/3) for different groups. Then, of course, the first line of our letter will talk about a great new way for plumbers to make extra money. Or architects. Or brick layers. Or preachers. Or dentists. Etc., etc.

Mucho bucks!

What'dya think of that? Right here before your eyes your old man has, during his lunch hour, come up with a brand new money maker!

No wonder they call me "The Legend."

Seriously, what I have just described seems to me like a good idea and, more importantly, it helps a little to illustrate, as I said earlier, how to think about mail order!

It also illustrates the important concept of customization. As a general rule, the more "custom tailored" your promotion is the more successful it will be.

For example, suppose you get a letter in the mail that says: "Dear Occupant, Here is news about a great new way to make money. Etc., etc., etc."

Mildly interesting. But now read this!

 

**************************************************************************

Dear Bond,

     Here is a great new way for 16 year old kids to make money!

Blah, blah, blah, etc., etc., etc.

**************************************************************************

 

Quite a difference, right? Just imagine that you were to receive such a letter on or right after June 26. It sure would get your attention much more than the first letter, wouldn't it?

And notice this: The second letter is not only customized (at is for 16 year olds) it is also personalized because it refers to you by name.

The "Dear Bond" and the "16 year old kids" part of the letter really zeroes in on you, doesn't it?

Here's another example of customization. Suppose you were writing an ad about a book that tells how to buy real estate with no money down. Your headline might look something like this:

How To Buy Real Estate
With No Money Down


Now let's boogie. Try this on for size!

How To Buy L.A. Real Estate
With No Money Down

Much better, eh? As a matter of fact I did write an ad for such a book and I did customize the ad and it did work much better.

Know this: Ideas breed other ideas.

For example, it just occurred to me that in addition to offering chiropractors, plumbers and so on a customized way to make money, we could also offer them a customized way to buy real estate. And, in this case, perhaps the first line in our letter might be: "Dear Doctor X, Here's a unique way L.A. chiropractors can purchase California real estate with no money down. Etc., etc."

Love You and Good Luck

Dad

 

 

Go To Chapter 10 

 	 
 	 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Boron Letters - Chapter 11

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Boron/TChapter11.htm

The Boron Letters - Chapter 11

 

 

Friday, 9:07 AM
June 22, 1984

 



Dear Bond,

As I left you yesterday, we had just came up with a working title for our real estate investment report. I believe it was "The Amazing L.A. Roadmap To Real Estate Riches!"

Maybe we can come up with a better title but this one is fine. At least for now. I believe we have also discussed extracting the goodies from several real estate books and we have collected and examined other DM pieces and MO ads for books and so forth that deal with real estate investments. We know how to choose a list to test and now it's time for us to create the DM promotion.

The first thing we are going to discuss is the outside envelope. This is where most mailers mess up first. You see, what most mailers do is put so-called "teaser copy" on the outside envelope and, in general, design the envelope so that it is very obvious that it contains a sales pitch.

If you will turn the page, I will show you what a typical direct mail outer envelope looks like. Whoops. We're here already!

 

**********************************************************************

 

ABC Publishing                                                                                                                              Bulk

209 - 5th Ave.                                                                                                                                  Rate

New York, NY 10049                                                                                                                       6666

{corner card with company name}                                                                                                   {bulk rate indicia with

                                                                                                                                                   a permit number}

 

 

 

WOW! There is                                   John Jones

exciting news                                     2193 - 7th St.

inside!                                                 Akron, OH  10104

{teaser copy}                                           {Cheshire label}

 

 

 

**********************************************************************

 

Pretty obvious, isn't it? In time, you are going to read my semi-famous A-Pile, B-Pile lecture. But here is a preview:

It is my contention that everybody divides their mail every day into two piles. An "A-Pile" and a "B-Pile". The "A" pile contains letters that appear to be personal. Like letters from friends, relatives, business associates, and so on.

On the other hand, the "B" pile contains those envelopes that, like the example above, obviously, contain a commercial message.

Now, here's the way it works: Everybody always opens all of their "A" pile mail.

And, for obvious reasons. After all, everybody wants to read their personal mail.

What happens to the "B" pile mail? Does it always get opened? No. It doesn't. Sometimes it is thrown away immediately without the envelope ever being opened. Sometimes, if it looks interesting, "B" pile envelopes will be set aside for later examination. And, of course, sometimes... IF the envelope looks interesting, or IF the person receiving it has some idle time, or IF the person is bored and has nothing else to do, than, MAYBE the "B" pile envelopes will be opened.

Unsatisfactory.

Quite obviously, people aren't getting to order from you unless they read your promotion and, also, quite obviously, they can't read your promotion unless they open the envelope.

And so, my dear son, what is our first objective here, as we begin to design our DM promotion? You are right! Our first objective is to get our envelope into the "A" pile.

And, it's so easy to do! All we have to do is make the envelope look personal. (Or at least we will take pains so it doesn't look commercial.) Here is what our envelope should look like:

 

**********************************************************************

 

                                                                                                                                                            20¢

209 - 5th Ave.                                                                                                                                  Live

New York, NY 10049                                                                                                                     Stamp

{corner card with return address ONLY;                                                                                           {an honest-to-God live

               no company name}                                                                                                             1st class stamp}

 

 

 

John Jones

2193 - 7th St.

Akron, OH  10104

{a handwritten or typed address; no label}

 

 

 

**********************************************************************

 

Nearly everybody who receives this envelope will open it. Why? The answer, as a copywriter would say, is simple. A person who gets this envelope will open it to find out what is inside. Because it is intriguing. Because it looks personal. Because it might be from someone he knows. Because it does not OBVIOUSLY contain a personal message.

Yes, my dear son, for all these good reasons, the person who gets this envelope will open it in order to find out what is inside.

You see, the "B" pile envelope let's the recipient know right from the jump that it contains a commercial message. And, of course, the recipient ALREADY KNOWS that this envelope does not contain any sort of personal communication.

Too bad. Too bad for the mailer, that is. Because, and this should be painfully apparent, because if only half as many people open your envelope, only half as many even have a CHANCE to order!

So obvious, so simple and so OVERLOOKED!

Yes, it's true. As obvious as this should be, it is missed by almost every advertising agency and nearly every so-called "direct mail expert" in the country.

So, I'll get off my podium. If I haven't made my point by now, shame on me. And, now, let's assume that we have designed an "A" pile envelope and we are relatively sure that our envelope will be opened. What's next? What's next is that we must now get our potential customer to begin reading our sales letter.

How do we do that? Well, let's start by getting his attention. And intriguing the heck out of him right from the start. Let's try this: Let's get a little plastic baggie and put some dirt in it and then attach it to the top of our letter. Here is what the letter will look like:

 

**********************************************************************

 

{little zip lock baggie

attached here with

dirt inside}

 

 

 

 

 

Friday, 6:30 p.m.

June 12, 1984

{typed day and date and time}

 

 

 

Dear Mr. Jones,

{personal salutation}

 

  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.

{body copy}

 

  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.

{body copy}

 

  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.

{body copy}

 

 

(over)

{little directive that tells the

 reader what to do from here}

 

**********************************************************************

 

Pay attention: What I have just shown you contains several of my little-known DM secrets. Let's examine them one by one.

First of all, that little baggie filled with dirt just sort of reaches right out and grabs you, doesn't it?

If you received this letter, wouldn't you be wondering, "What's in this baggie?" "Is that dirt in there?" "Why would somebody be sending me a baggie of dirt?"

And, consciously or unconsciously, you would be thinking, "I better read this and find out what it is all about."

And, you see, we now have not only captured our reader's attention, we have gotten his "focused" attention.

Quality attention.

Now, what about that part right above the salutation? The part that contains the day, date and time. What is the significance of all this? Tune in tomorrow and see!

I Love You and Good Luck!

Dad

PS.Yesterday I ram (jogged) the hill 5 times non-stop in 58 minutes and 18 seconds and after the run I weighed 176-1/2 pounds.

      

 	 
 	 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Boron Letters - Chapter 12

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Boron/TChapter12.htm

The Boron Letters - Chapter 12

 

 

Saturday, 10:02 AM

June 23, 1984

 

 

Dear Bond,

Let's get right back to that real estate letter. I've already pointed out how that little baggie filled with dirt will attract and focus our reader's attention. Now, let's talk about the other particulars of the first page of that letter.

I think I left off in my last letter where I was just about to comment on the part above the salutation, the part that tells the day of the week, the exact time, the day of the month and the year. Why is it important to put these specifics in the letter?

Well, it makes the letter a little more personal, doesn't it? I mean seriously, don't you feel a little closer to me because I put all this data in each of my letters to you? I think so. I think this way of doing things bonds the writer and the reader closer together. It also gives our transmission the quality of immediacy. And, while I'm on the subject, it just occurred to me that I should tell you that another additional way to achieve this bond of intimacy and immediacy in your letters is to describe where you are and what you are doing as you are writing the letter.

For example, right now I am sitting cross-legged on my back here in room 7 of dorm 6 in the Boron Federal Prison Camp. I have just finished running the hill five times (4-miles) and I did it in 57 minutes and 5 seconds.

Do you see how this type of personal specific info bonds the reader and writer closer together? You do? Good. I'll continue.

Now, here's another little thought: When you tell the day of the week plus the exact time you are writing the letter, it makes it seem a more important communication too, doesn't it? Sort of like a telegram. There's no doubt about it: A time-dated communication carries considerable more weight than one which is not.

Onward.

Now let's talk about the salutation. Notice that the salutation addresses our reader by name, just like I do in these letters to you. "Dear Bond" gets a certain quality of focused attention that is not enjoyed by "Dear Sir" or "Dear Occupant" or "Dear Reader".

Think about it. When you read the words "Dear Bond", you know my letter is for you personally, don't you? It's not for Kevin. It's not for whoever owns the house. Or anybody who lives at the address on the envelope. No. The words "Dear Bond" indicate that this letter is for you and you alone.

And this makes you pay more attention, doesn't it?

Now, if you will look in the lower right hand corner of the letter in my illustration and, also, in all of my other letters, you will see, in parenthesis, a tiny little instruction like this: (over) or like this: (go to page 7). What I am doing here is taking the reader by the hand and leading him exactly where I want him to go. It seems like a small point and, maybe it is, but is the little touches like this that keeps the letter flowing, the reader moving along, and, it relieves him of the burden of trying to figure out what he is supposed to do when he finishes reading a particular page.

Don't scoff. Quite often (most often) your letter will arrive when your prospect is busy, when his mind is on other things. Therefore, you need to work hard to make reading your letter pleasant, easy-read, interesting and unconfusing.

Well, here I am once again starting to write without knowing where I am going. All I know is that when I keep moving and writing and flowing that generally something decent emerges. We'll see.

No, wait. I know what I'll tell you. How about what else goes inside the carrier envelope in addition to the letter? One thing for sure is that you must include a reply envelope. Now, when it comes to reply envelopes, you basically have two choices. The options are to make the reader pay the postage when he mails the envelope or for you to pay the postage for him. There are two ways for you to pay the postage. One of these is to simply put a "live" stamp on the envelope so that it will be all ready to mail when he receives it.

There are a couple of advantages to this strategy and one big disadvantage. The disadvantage is cost. Right now, at 20¢ per stamp it will cost you $200.00 extra per thousand to do business this way. And, naturally, because of this, most mailers never even test this option.

That's too bad. Really. Because sometimes, this strategy will pay off. Therefore, I believe, when either or both of the following conditions exists you should test a SRE (Stamped Reply Envelope):

Condition #1: You are selling a high-ticket item where the profit structure is such that one additional sale per thousand letters mailed will yield more than enough profit to pay for your SRE's.

This means, of course, that each sale you make has to have a mark up of at least $200.00.

You know what? What I just wrote may not be quite accurate. Because, if you think about it, if those SRE's bring in two or more orders per M, then your mark up on each sale would only have to be $100.00. If they bring in three extra orders per M, the mark up would only have to be $70.00 per unit to make it feasible.

And so on.

Condition #2: You should test a SRE whenever you can make the recipient of your letter feel guilty if he doesn't reply. This works especially well for charity or fund raising letters. For example, you might have a line in one of your letters that goes something like this:

"...and those pitiful children need your help right now! So please send a check immediately and send as much as possible. That's all you have to do. I have already addressed the reply envelope and I have even gone to the expense of putting a stamp on it so you won't have to hunt for one!"

Pretty good guilt, eh? And you can also use guilt in a regular sales letter. Here's how:

Continued Tomorrow

I Love You and Good Luck!

Dad

 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Boron Letters - Chapter 14

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Boron/TChapter14.htm

The Boron Letters - Chapter 14

 

 

Monday, 9:05 AM

June 25, 1984

 

Dear Bond,

Today we are going to talk about that baggie full of dirt that we have attached to our real estate investment sales letter.

Now, listen up. While it is true that you must attract attention to your advertisements and sales letters, it is also true that your "attention grabber" should be relevant. It should tie in with your message. It should make sense.

Once upon a time there was a guy who wrote a series of articles for a magazine called "Printers Ink." I forget the guys pen name but he was very good. He wrote about how to improve DM & MO advertising.

Well, anyway, he once called an excellent example of how you should NOT attract attention. Check out this headline:

 

A Submarine

That Flies?

 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

 

And then, beneath that headline was the copy: "No, we don't have a submarine that flies but our pink pills, etc., etc."

A cheap shot. People resent this kind of fraud. Don't do it. If you put your mind to work you won't have to either. You can grab attention without "cheating", without making the reader feel ripped off. Which brings me right back to our dirt filled baggie.

Do you remember how I explained that the baggie has our reader wondering why you sent it to him? That he wants to know what's going on here? That we have his focused attention? Quality attention?

You say you do remember all that? Good. In that case, I'll proceed.

Now, here's how the letter will start off:

 

 

Dear Mr. Tiberion,

 

I am attaching a plastic baggie to the top of this letter for two important reasons:

 

First of all, what I have to say to you is very serious and I needed some way to be sure to get your attention.

 

And secondly, what is inside that baggie could very well be your passport to complete financial independence!

 

Why is this? The answer is simple: You see, what is inside that baggie is a very tiny amount of what is the most valuable thing on earth.

 

I'm talking about real estate and, in this case, Hawaiian Real Estate!

 

Yes, it's true. The sand inside that baggie was taken directly from a certain beach on the island of Maui and this particular beach is one of the few left that is open for purchase to private investors!

 

Here's what it's all about: blah, blah, blah, etc., etc., etc.

 

 

O.K., Bondodog, do you follow what I'm doing here? You see, what I did is I got his attention and then I tied my copy to my "attention grabber" in a relevant way that makes sense.

Now, if I were to continue writing this letter, I would use words that would make my reader "picture with pleasure" that beach in his mind. Before I was finished, he would be able to feel the sand in his toes, smell the fresh tang of the salt air, drink in the stars with his eyes and feel the warm friendly sun on his back.

Oddly enough, just a couple days ago, I received from Eric a copy of a sales letter he is writing to sell Hawaiian real estate. I am going to send Eric's letter to you real soon and I want you to read it and then imagine how much his letter could be improved by using all the little secrets (including the baggie) that we have just discussed.

Well oh well, what have we got so far? Let's see: we picked out our list, we know how to think about outside envelopes and return envelopes, we have thought up a way to get our reader's attention and we have the first couple paragraphs of our letter.

But, in most cases, we need more than a letter and a reply envelope. Yes, in most cases, it is good to include an order card and some type of printed brochure. I like to include an order card and a brochure with my sales letters. However, I do not like to let my reader see my order card, etc. as soon as he opens the envelope.

Do you know why? That's right. I don't want him to realize that I want to sell him something until I am well into my pitch. Here is something else you should know: Many people, when they read an ad, read it like this... What they do is, they read the headline first and then they go right to the order coupon.

The same is true with direct mail letters. If your reader sees your order card as soon as he opens your envelope, he will read it first to see what the deal is.

And, that's not good for us. It is true, of course, that we do want him to read our order card but we want him to read it at the proper time! And the proper time is after he has read our letter.

Comprende?

Now, how in the world do we include an order card and/or a sales brochure in our envelope and still hide it (temporarily) from our reader?

Believe it or not, it took me years to figure this out. And, just like the paperclip, it is so simple, you wonder why you didn't see it instantly.

Here's how I do it: What I do is, take an 8-1/2x11 piece of paper and cut it in half long ways.

 

 

(cut here)

-  -  -  -  - 

 

Next I fold the cut pieces in thirds like this:

 

 

(fold here)

-  -  - 

 

 

(fold here)

-  -  - 

 

 

Now, turn the piece around and write this on the back:

 

 

NOTE: Open this paper to find the special info mentioned in my letter.

GH

 

 

OK, now, that which I have just written should be printed in blue ink and appear to be handwritten. Notice that it refers him to my letter and it is personalized with my initials.

Now here is what he will see when he finally opens that note:

 

 

Here Is The Info I Mentioned In My Letter!

 

~~~~~~~~     (Boxed

~~~~~~           Photo

~~~~~~~~       Here)

~~~~~~~

 

 

(Order Coupon)

 

 

 

O.K., kiddo, here is my final point for the day. Although I like my letters to be personal, in most cases, I also like them to be "businesslike personal".

And, that's why part of the package should be typeset and maybe contain some photographs. Your see, this adds an air of stability to your promotion. It makes you seem like a real business.

Again, I want to emphasize that in order to make it easy to order (and to credential our offer) we need stuff like order cards, brochures, photos, and typeset copy.

But, again, as I said, we want our reader to see this stuff at the proper time.

AFTER HE HAS READ OUR LETTER!

I Love You and Good Luck!

Dad

 

 	 
 	 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Free Gold From Gary

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/Feb04.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Tuesday, 9:00 p.m.

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

  I am working on a very important newsletter (maybe two of them) that will be of great interest to every successful marketer of information in the world.

  This is causing me to do an enormous amount of research and is drastically cutting into the time available (at least for right now) that I have to write my monthly newsletter.

  So, I am going to make this newsletter very short.

  But, I think you're going to forgive me for that.

  Why?

  Because I am giving you with this newsletter the ability to listen... absolutely free... to a recorded teleseminar that, in fairness, you should be charged a great deal of money (hundreds and hundreds of dollars) for this privilege.

  Here's all you have to do: Go to(Website No Longer Exists)

 

  That will take to you something called "The Copywriters' Phone Jam" subtitled "Recorded Teleseminars Between Copywriters Gary Halbert, John Carlton and Michel Fortin."

  Scroll down until you see "2. For the call with Gary Halbert and Michael Fortin."

  This is a long teleseminar. It comes in Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4. All you have to do is click on the red button with the white arrow pointing to the right (your screen will show "play" when you move your mouse over it) to listen.

  If I were you, I would ignore the other teleseminar with Michel Fortin and John Carlton. John always was... and still is... a "Gary Halbert Wannabe". To my knowledge, he's never had an original idea in his life and I regard him as something of a "pet". Unfortunately, he's not only a pet... he's a pest too. He's like a little dog forever snapping at my heels yapping something like, "Gary, you got any new ideas I could pass off to people and claim they were a result of my own thinking? Huh Gary? Huh?"

  Ah, go ahead and make up your own mind. Even though John is more or less nothing but a nuisance to me, I guess it could possibly help you if you listened to his teleseminar also. If for no other reason than to have him remind you of something I taught him.

  As for anything related to Michel Fortin and Peter Stone (Peter's the one who made this teleseminar possible), I have not personally met nor do I know very much about either of them. The only tidbit I have been able to glean about the two of them is they are both, quite possibly, a little insane. After all, they both live in cities which currently have subzero temperatures. And, if either of them had half-a-brain, they'd be living down here in Miami where they could enjoy weather that's almost always in the 70's and 80's and they might have a chance to rub shoulders with me once in a while.

  Hey, you ever hear of a guy named Mark Joyner? I believe he was the first real Internet guru and wrote the first e-book which was downloaded over one million times. He happened to come to Miami recently to do a little consulting for a friend and he and I got together for lunch at the Latin American restaurant in Bayside. It was funny. He and I were so interested in what each other had to say, that as we spoke, each of us was furiously taking notes. There was Mark jabbing away at his space age Internet-linked, satellite connected PDA... and... there was me scribbling notes on the back of envelopes, napkins and other scraps of paper I could get my hands on.

  We've become good friends and meet fairly often now. In fact, Mark likes Miami and South Beach so much, he has taken a lease on a $6,500 a month condo unit overlooking the ocean.

  You know, I bet if he and I did a seminar together (we are NOT planning to do one) there is almost no question about online or offline marketing the two of us couldn't answer.

  I'd like to get some feedback from my readers after you've listened to the teleseminar I did with Michel Fortin.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S.   For any of you dimwitted enough not to know it, John Carlton is one of my best friends... and... one of the top marketing experts in the world. We've worked on many projects as a team and boy, did we ever kick ass!

Anyway, that's it for now. Shoot me an e-mail (NoSexGary@aol.com) and tell me what you thought about the teleseminar

Peace.

Click Here To View Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want To Be On My Newsletter Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## More Free Gold From Gary

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/Feb05Seminar.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Tuesday, 9:00 p.m.

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

  Would you like to hear me on a live seminar?

  This week?

  On Thursday?

  At 9:00 p.m. Eastern Time?

  Would you like to be able to ask me questions before or during the seminar by e-mail?

  Here's all you gotta do: On Thursday, February 10, 2005, at 9:00 p.m. Eastern Time, call 1-641-594-7511. Then, when prompted, enter your PIN Code which is 220238#. Don't forget to press that # key.

  You can e-mail questions to me before or during the live seminar. E-mail them to me at Gary@BoostMyResponse.com.

  OK, That's it. Do it or don't. But, know this: You're truly a dummy if you don't.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S.   If I were you, I'd call early. There's only room for 1,000 people on the call and many more will be trying desperately to get on!

Peace.

Click Here To View Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want To Be On My Newsletter Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Two Garys Trying To Make Your Holidays Merry

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/Dec%2704.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Tuesday, 9:00 p.m.

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

  Years ago, in what now seems another life, Jay Abraham asked me to read a sales letter written to sell a subscription to a financial newsletter.

  He then asked me, "Do you think you can do better than this?" I replied, "Yes, I could beat this letter if I was in a coma."

  So, I wrote a sales letter to compete against the one he had shown me. My letter did exponentially better than the other one. But to me, it wasn't much of an accomplishment. You see, the letter Jay had shown me was poorly written, thematically flawed, and in general, what I considered to be a very amateurish, clumsy effort.

  After writing that first letter, I started writing sales letters for financial products on an almost assembly-line basis. I wrote them for coin dealers, Agora Publishing, KCI Publishing, Phillips Publishing, and others. These were companies that mailed tens of millions of sales letters a year.

  It was such an easy gig for me, I could almost sleep through all of the "work" I was doing.

But That Was Soon To Change!

  One day (when I was living in Oakwood Garden Apartments in Burbank, California) I read a sales letter (it would turn out to be the first of many) written by a man named Gary Bencivenga. As I read that letter, my heart sank.

  His sales letter was so well crafted, so impactful from a sales point of view, I knew if I had to compete against this guy, it would no longer be like shooting fish in a barrel.

  This guy was good! In fact, he wasn't just good, he was unbelievably good!

  Throughout the years, Gary created a steady stream of some of the best sales messages ever written. But I think even beyond his outstanding writing ability, his understanding of human psychology is truly exceptional.

  Gary recently sent a Christmas message to all of his subscribers and it touched my heart so much, I am (with his permission) reproducing it here. Don't start reading it thinking it is simply a "holiday message" (it WILL lift the heart of everyone who reads it)... but... do pay special attention because it also contains a very valuable marketing lesson.

  Anyway, without further ado, here's a very special message from my friend, Gary Bencivenga:

This story is about another father of a disabled child, in his case, a son named Shaya.

This story was originally reported in the New York newspapers. It was so touching, it spread like wildfire across the internet, and many began to question, "Did this really happen, or is it just another urban legend?"

Well, that's the amazing part of this story. It is true. In fact, because of all the buzz, a web site called "TruthOrFiction.com" investigated and has reported that, yes, the story is indeed true. It has also been confirmed by no less an authority than the highly respected Rabbi and author, Paysach Krohn of Brooklyn, who says that he personally knows the participants and that every word of the story is true as originally reported. As I said, the story is about Shaya, a learning disabled boy in Brooklyn.

On weekends, Shaya and his dad like to go for walks. As they do, they like to stop and watch the neighborhood boys play baseball.

On this one Sunday afternoon, as they approached the ball field, Shaya looked up at his father and asked, "Dad, do you think they would let me play?"

Now, this gave Dad a dilemma. He knows his son is learning disabled, very uncoordinated, and has never played baseball before. But Dad also knows the neighborhood boys have always treated Shaya with kindness. And he feels that if he, his father, doesn't speak up for Shaya, who will?

So he walked over to one of the boys and asked, "What do you think about letting Shaya in the game?"

The boy didn't know what to say, and looked around to his teammates for guidance. Not getting any, he took matters into his own hands. He said, "Well, we're about to start the 8th inning, and we're losing by six runs. I don't think we're going to win this game, so what's the difference? Get him a glove and he can play behind second base, in short center field," which Shaya did with a big smile on his face.

In the bottom of the 8th inning, Shaya's team rallied and scored three runs. But they were still losing by three.

In the bottom of the 9th, they rallied again. They had three runners on base, two out, and it was Shaya's turn to bat.

Dad wondered, will they even let him bat? But without hesitation, one of the boys shouted, "Shaya, you're up!," and he was handed a bat. But as he stood at home plate, it was obvious to all that Shaya didn't even know how to hold the bat, let alone hit with it.

So the pitcher moved in a couple of feet and lobbed the ball very softly so Shaya could at least make contact.

Shaya swung and missed by a wide margin. Before the second pitch, one of Shaya's teammates called out, "Hold on, let me help him. Let me show him how to bat." This boy came and stood behind Shaya, and put his arms around him so the two boys were now holding the bat together.

The pitcher moved in a couple more feet and again lobbed the ball as softly as he could.

The two boys swung the bat together and managed to tap a soft grounder right back toward the pitcher. Shaya's teammates yelled, "Run, Shaya! Run to first!" And he took off for first base.

But the pitcher pounced on the ball in an instant and could easily have thrown Shaya out at first, ending the game. Instead, the pitcher took the ball and, with obvious intention, threw it on a high arc way over the first baseman's head, all the way into the outfield.

Shaya was safe at first. The first baseman turned him toward second and said, "Run, Shaya, run to second!"

But by then, the right fielder had chased down the ball and he, too, could have easily thrown Shaya out, at second. But he understood what the pitcher had done. So he threw the ball not just over second base, but way over the third baseman's head, so far that nobody was going to retrieve that ball.

As Shaya chugged into second base, the opposing shortstop ran towards him, turned him towards third base and shouted, "Run, Shaya, run to third!"

Of course, by now the three runners who had been on base had scored. The game was tied, Shaya represented the winning run, and his teammates were screaming with excitement.

As Shaya rounded third base, every boy from his team... and several from the opposing team on the field... were all running behind him, cheering him home.

And as he put his foot on home plate, both teams gathered around him, lifted him on their shoulders and cheered him as the hero of the game. He had just hit a home run and won the game. These boys gave Shaya the thrill of his life. Of course, they gave him something even more precious--their acceptance.

Obviously, these boys had either been taught, or perhaps had discovered on their own, the greatest secret of human happiness. And that is . . . .

We Experience Our Moments Of Purest Joy At Precisely Those Moments When We Are Causing It In Others.

It is a truism of life--whatever we give out comes back to us, multiplied. Which brings me back to the beginning of this message . . . .

In the hurly burly of the holiday crush, if you want to experience some genuine joy, all you need do is take a few moments to spread some joy around yourself.

Maybe it's time to call an old friend who needs calling. Or to forgive what needs forgiving. To let a family member hear some healing words. Perhaps write that note that needs writing. Smile an accepting smile at the next disabled person you encounter. Or maybe to just relax in the moment with someone older who'd love your undivided attention for a few minutes, as all living things thrive on attention.

Of course, you may ask, what does all this have to do with effective marketing, the usual subject of these Bullets?

Nothing, really.

And everything.

As Malcolm Forbes was fond of saying, "In all thy getting, get understanding."

It's vital for all of us to understand that our prospects and customers are people, too . . . and people like to connect with others who are unafraid of showing a little humanity, of taking some time now and then to share a laugh, feel some warmth, express some sympathy, do a favor, help a charity, be a friend. Whatever your product, however impressive your expertise, people will never care how much you know until they know how much you care.

Every now and then, toss a few pebbles of caring into your pond of contacts. Those ripples of friendship will spread and unfailingly return to you in waves of appreciation and loyalty.

Especially at this time of year, we all need to rediscover, like Scrooge in "A Christmas Carol," the giddy delight of perpetrating on unsuspecting humanity some random acts of kindness, some senseless acts of joy.

* * * * *

If you would like to share Shaya's story of joy with anyone you know, you certainly have my permission to forward this e-mail to as many people as you wish, to spread a little cheer yourself and honor the spirit of the season.

 

  I'd like to tell you something else that's very special about Gary. Every Thanksgiving he sends a large, solid gold coin to someone who has affected his life in a positive way.

  And one of the things of which I am most proud is... Gary sent me one of these coins back in the 90's. Unfortunately, due to earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, and the other discombobulations of my life, I no longer have that coin. But, to me, that doesn't really matter. What DOES matter is the memory of knowing a man such as Gary Bencivenga held me in enough esteem to bestow me with that gold coin. That's about as high an honor to which a person like me can aspire.

  Anyway, he publishes a monthly newsletter on the Internet called "Bencivenga Bullets" and everybody in marketing should be reading them (and printing them for their fodder file). Even though Gary's "Bullets" are free... they are truly invaluable. You can find them at www.BencivengaBullets.com.

  Next year (2005) Gary is hosting a seminar in New York City. John Carlton will be there. So will Scott "Mongo" Haines. And yes, I will be there too. (Along with many other "celebrity" marketers.) But, each of us will be there as attendees... not as participants. So don't bother asking any of us questions. We'll be too busy ourselves taking notes and learning from one of the handful of true living legends of copywriting and marketing.

  There is no seminar on earth I can think of that would be more worth attending than the one going to be given by Gary Bencivenga in 2005. You can be certain (barring some sort of (tragedy) every sane marketing genius in the world will be there to sit at his feet and learn from him.

  You know, as you walk through life you cannot help but be aware of all the corrupt business men, thieves, sex offenders, crooked politicians, war lords, murderers, greedy religious leaders, lying CEO's, and just plain jerks. But, every once in a while on this path through life, you come across "a Gary Bencivenga". A person...

Who Restores Your Faith In The Decency Of Mankind!

  On a personal level, I would like to wish each and every one of you a Merry Christmas and a happy holiday season (whichever is appropriate) and I pledge in 2005 I will redouble my efforts to provide value for you, my newsletter readers.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S.   I'm feeling especially grateful for all the blessings I have in my personal life... but...

 Don't Expect That To Continue!

Unlike Gary Bencivenga, I am unable to sustain kindness, integrity and decency over any prolonged period of time. Therefore, I can pretty much assure you that in the almost immediate future I will, once again, be obnoxious, rude, chauvinistic and 100% politically incorrect. I'm sorry. I just can't help it!

Peace.

Click Here To View Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want To Be On My Newsletter Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## When The Sun Comes Up... You Better Be Running!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zkll_better_be_running.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek




Dear Friend & Subscriber,

 

"Every morning in Africa, a gazelle wakes up. It knows it must run faster than the fastest lion... or... it will be killed.

"Every morning a lion wakes up. It knows it must outrun the slowest gazelle... or... it will starve to death.

"It doesn't matter whether you are a gazelle or a lion, when the sun comes up... you better be running."

Amen.

You know, I used to think if I worked hard enough, remained clear-headed enough, remained disciplined enough, was clever enough, honest enough, creative enough, good-hearted enough... and... in general, did enough of everything I needed to do... that someday... I would get to a "sweet spot" where I could just kick back and enjoy life.

Me and everyone I cared about would be healthy. Financial problems would be a joke. I'd have so much money stashed away, I would be able to laugh at the money worries of lesser mortals. I'd have the love of a good woman (maybe more than one) and an endless supply of everything great. Love. Money. Sex. Health. Fame. Friends. Adoring fans. You name it, I'd have it. I'd have it all.

I'd wake up in the morning, stretch, splash some water on my face, drink a cup of coffee, walk out on my sun deck, look out at the ocean... and... my big decision of the day would be... 'what pleasant thing shall I do to amuse myself today?'

Well, guess what? In spite of all my successes, all my luck, all my doing everything just so... that "sweet spot"... has always managed to elude me. Finally, as we approach the beginning of an entirely new century, I have managed to figure out why I can't find that "sweet spot." Simply put...

It Don't
Exist!

Not in this world anyway. Show me a guy worth 100 gazillion dollars and I guarantee, he won't be in that "sweet spot." He'll have 167 things on his "to do" list. He won't have enough time or energy to have a real and satisfying relationship with a member of the opposite sex. And he'll frantically be trying to juggle 30,000 balls in the air all at the same time.

Show me the very best marriage or relationship you know about. Show me a couple so "right" for each other they absolutely "glow" when they are together. Let me hire a private detective to record their lives with hidden microphones and TV cameras... and then... I guarantee you will be astonished at how much stress they are dealing with in their lives!

Show me any retired person you know. Pick someone who has meticulously prepared for his or her retirement. Let's put the hidden cameras and microphones on that person and what will we find? Unexpected aches and pains? Loneliness? Despair? Poor health? Depression? Etc.

S-C-R-E-E-C-H-!

That's the sound of me ending my rant on the morbidity of life. Life is not necessarily morbid. It's not necessarily joyous either. You know what life really is? It's a conveyer belt! A conveyer belt of problems, opportunities, joyous events, horrible events, good news, bad news... everything you can imagine. But, this conveyer belt was not designed by man; it was designed by a DUDE just a tad smarter than us mere mortals. And guess what else? There ain't NO mechanical problems with HIS conveyer belt... and... that damn thing... ain't never gonna stop moving! Truth be told, that sucker seems to me to be speeding up every single day!

You're on that treadmill. So am I. So is everybody else on this planet still lucky enough to be drawing breath. Other than the grave, we don't really have a choice. As my friend, Dr. Joachim DePosada pointed out in that little tale about the gazelle and the lion...

When The Sun Comes Up,
We Better Be Running!

So what? Well, here's so what: Since we don't have any real choice about whether or not we are going to run "the race of life," my idea is this:

For As Long As We Can,
Let's You And I Be
The Fastest, Strongest And
Most Ferocious Lions
In The Whole Damn Jungle!
Let's not starve; let's not be eaten; let's thrive!

Here's my plan: I occasionally run an ad in Investor's Business Daily with the headline, "How To Make Up To 15 Profitable Trades Every Single Day The Market Is Open!" That little ad is designed to get people to call my answering service and request a copy of my confidential report which explains my new stock trading system. I think you've already seen a copy of that ad in this newsletter but, since I suffer from an advanced case of "CRS"*, I'm going to reprint it right here just to make sure.

 

Free Report Reveals...

How To Make Up
To 15 Profitable
Trades Every
Single Day The
Market Is Open!

New trading system works like a Swiss watch. However, it does not work with bulletin board or "pink sheet" stocks.

This system lets you make up to 15 profitable trades per day... but... it only works with stocks listed on the NYSE, AMEX  or NASDAQ exchanges. This is not day-trading... but... most of your trades (about 90% of them) will be completed in approximately 40 minutes. In other words, if you buy a stock at 11:00 a.m., you will probably have sold it (at a double-digit percentage profit) well before noon.

This system is not for everybody. If you can't pay attention to the stock market for at least 90 minutes per day... and... if you can't scrape together $8,000 or $9,000 to get started, this system is not for you. On the other hand, if this is not a problem for you... then... you should read my free report immediately!

It's easy to get a copy. All you have to do is call my answering service, leave your name and address... and... we will send the report to you by First-Class Mail the same day we receive your call.

1-800-960-6647


If you happened to read that ad and requested a copy of my report, I'm sure you'll remember receiving it. I sent it by Federal Express... and... along with the report was a personalized letter addressed to you with a $1.00 bill attached to the first page... so... I would be sure to catch your attention.

There was also an audio tape included with the package.

I've learned a very valuable lesson from running that ad. I've been so swamped with people interested, I haven't been able to reach each caller. I took on so many students and, I ended up working so many hours, it started to affect my health. I was working up to 14 hours per day and there were some days I literally "forgot" to eat. I got my youngest son to help me out and, at first, I thought that would take off the pressure.

But, it didn't. The students just kept coming and coming and my son started to get as exhausted as I was. Our fee to teach someone the stock trading system was $3,700 and, in spite of that high price, the students still kept coming! We were ruining our health trying to keep up.

So one day, I just quit.

On that particular day, I had seven new students ready to go... and... I told them to keep their money because, I literally had to take some time off. Can you imagine that? I could have made $25,900 in a single day... and... in spite of that... I quit.

It's not like I don't need the money either. I now have a special set of circumstances in my life... that requires... (in order for me to continue to help certain people whom I love with all my heart) I make a considerable amount of money.

Those circumstances are personal and I'm not going to discuss them here.

Anyway, I got to thinking: Why don't I follow my own advice? Why don't I teach this stock-trading system at a seminar... have it audio and video taped... and then... sell the tapes? That way, I can stop doing all this personalized instruction and take some time off so I can get a little bit of enjoyment out of my life. (By the way, I continually modify my trading system... and now... I've got it where you can make all your trades early in the morning and go do something else with the rest of your day.)

And, I got to thinking even more: Why not (at the same time) don't I give an updated version of my "How To Write A Sales Letter That Will Make You Rich" seminar? I can include all the new Internet stuff I've discovered and give my students a jump start on writing the kind of copy that's going to work most effectively in the coming century.

And, I got to thinking even more: Why don't I teach every detail you need to know to have a profitable website on the Internet?

And, I got to thinking even more: Why don't I make this the absolute best and most complete seminar of this entire century? Why don't I do one final end-of-the-century seminar... and... tell everything I know?!

Why don't I do a seminar so fantastic that Jay Abraham, Terry Hunefeld, Brian Kay, Dan Kennedy, Michael Kimble, Bill Myers, Joe Polish, Tony Robbins, and all the rest of them... will be too ashamed to ever show their faces in public again?

I'm gonna do it. Damn it, I'm gonna do it! You know what I'm gonna call this seminar? It's gonna be...

"Gary Halbert's
Masters Of The Millennium Seminar!"

It's the end of the century and I'm going to spill it all. Hell, I may as well. I can't use all this knowledge anyway. As I've often said, "I have the same ability to manage a business as a pig has to solve geometry problems."

But, make no mistake: Just because I can't manage doesn't mean I can't teach! I'll tell you what: I've got more to teach than all the rest of the ever-growing tribe of "Gary Halbert Wannabe's" all put together. Here's a sample of what I will be teaching at this seminar:

 

R	How to start trading stocks at 9:30 in the morning... quit by 10:30... and... make a tidy profit for the rest of your life!

R	What you need to know about making an Internet website profitable... before... you waste one minute of your time or one dollar of your money!

R	Tips on how to spot the almost invisible problems that are hurting your business (no matter how big or small) and the triple step technique to solve those problems fast!

R	How to use my riveting "A-Pile/B-Pile" strategy to increase your direct mail response by as much as 400% overnight! (Plus, new Internet strategies to make your copy even more effective.)

R	How to close your sales like a pro in your copy... or... on the phone... or... on the radio... or... on television... or... even on a website!

R	Why your "back-end" sales may be 1,000 times more profitable than your initial sale... and... what to do to make your second sale in less than a week from the time you got the initial order!

R	How to write headlines that force people to read your copy... and... how to write copy that forces people to desire and order your product and service! (Y2K is going to be a big help here.)

R	How to instantly blow all competition out of the water, no matter how much bigger they are than you or how much longer they've been in business! (With these three secrets, your 1-man business can defeat a huge enterprise that employs as many as 1,000 people.)

R	How to test the appeal of your offer for pennies and give yourself a 100% better chance of succeeding! (Believe it or not, I can put the odds 50 to 1 in your favor.)

R	Five fast, simple steps to make yourself the only person your customers would even think about doing business with... and... a very special secret that makes this especially true after January 1, 2000!

R	A truly "no-brainer" way to bump the amount of your average order by 100% or more automatically!

R	How to combine your Yellow Page ads with an Internet website that makes it virtually impossible for your prospects to pay attention to anyone else!

R	How to write "killer" copy... even if... you are almost illiterate!

R	How to locate the very hottest potential customers for your specific product or service!

R	How to suck $100,000 in cash right out of your business in less than 30-days with one simple letter!

R	How to create "instant credibility" that forces people to believe your claims!

R	Why perception is reality! (Except on the Internet.)

R	How you can create a telephone upsell that will suck out even more money from 50% of all new customers who call to order!

R	How to write brilliant copy even on those days when your mind is frozen!

  I could go on and on but, I'm not going to. However, I do want you to know, I am setting aside an entire day (maybe two days, if necessary) at this seminar where I will attempt to answer all questions from all attendees of the seminar. Whatever your goals are, I will try to help you achieve them. Whatever your problems are, I will try to help you solve them. Basically, what I want to teach you is this...

The Best Ways In The
World To Become Rich
Before The Year 2,000
Is Even Half-Way Over!

Look, veterans of my past seminars have said there is no way to accurately describe what happens at these events. Each day starts at fever pitch... and... it continues to go up from there... until... I literally have to force everyone to go to bed for the night so I can "re-juice" my brain for the next session.

Would you like to know who are the most likely people you are going to meet when you come to a Gary Halbert seminar? It's simple: It's often someone who's been to a previous seminar. You see, often, after a person leaves one of my seminars, he goes out and makes so much money so fast, the expense of coming to another seminar is almost of no consequence. I do not exaggerate when I say that often, when a person comes to one of my seminars it is...

A Life Transforming Event!

Where am I going to have this seminar? How long will it last? How much is it going to cost?

Actually, there are certain "details" of this seminar I don't want to reveal unless you are a serious potential attendee. The nature of this seminar is such, I don't want anyone to attend... unless... they talk with me on the phone first. The conversation won't be overly long... but... it will be important.

I hope you're interested. If so, call 1-305-534-7577 or fax 1-352-861-1665 and leave a number and the best time I can call you.

But... call now! I am writing this letter on the last day of August which means you will be receiving it well after we are already into the month of September... which... does not leave us a lot of extra time to get this dealybop organized and up and running. If you come to this seminar, you are going to start the next century as the baddest ass in the jungle. You know what my attendees are gonna call you if you are a non-attendee? It can be summed up in one word:

Lunch!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
P.S.	

I don't usually dedicate my seminars but, I sure am going to dedicate this one. This one is for my daughter, her husband and their new-born baby girl. Cindy is my oldest child and she just blessed me with a beautiful new granddaughter named Rosannah Antonia Seger.


But, there never seems to be any roses without thorns, does there? Cindy went in to have a normal birth and ended up having to have a Caesarean. It seems she had a benign tumor in her uterus... the size of an orange... that... the doctors somehow failed to previously notice! This caused her to almost lose her life five different times. She had so much internal bleeding, they found an entire liter of blood in just her uterus. Her blood pressure dropped to practically nothing. Her heart became arrhythmic and nearly stopped. And on and on.

All the while, her lovable, big lug of a husband, Anton "Big Mac" Seger was beside himself with worry.

But Cindy is out of intensive care now and in a non-critical section of the hospital. She should be released from the hospital altogether in about a week after the iron count of her blood is back to normal.

I couldn't be more proud of her. She was on that damned conveyer belt and it started to go 1,000 MPH... but... my baby girl hung in there!

Yahoo!

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Gary Halbert's New Free Teleseminar

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/freeteleseminar.htm

From:
Gary C. Halbert
North of Jewfish Creek
Sunday, November 28th, 11:47 a.m.

 

    My new free teleseminar will happen just 2 1/2 days from now. I will give the teleseminar on Tuesday, November 30, 2004, at 9:00 P.M. East Coast Time.

To get on the seminar you need to dial: 641-594-7568

and you need to punch in: 942717#.

   You should call early because there are going to be more than
10,000 people on this call. Don't miss out on this one Dummy, I'm
going to be giving out a lot of really hot info.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## An Open Letter To Anyone So Insane That He Wants To Become A Gary Halbert Client

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/mentoring.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Tuesday, 9:00 p.m.

 

   I have been working on a marketing concept for nearly half-a-year. This is, I believe, a concept that wouldn't work nearly as well if John Kerry were elected President of the United States. Since George Bush has been re-elected President (and the results are now final) it is my belief this marketing concept will work in a spectacular way. And, this could be a bonanza no matter if you're marketing on-line... or off-line... or a combination of both!

   By the way, you should not take this information as to mean I was or was not rooting for George Bush to win. I don't believe my newsletter is a proper forum in which to express my political views.

   But, since Bush did win, I would like to use this concept I have developed to make as much immediate money as I can for myself, and a few other select people. Therefore, I am now doing something I haven't done for 14 years. That is... I am, as of right now, actively soliciting for a few new clients.

   I have done some client work over the past 14 years, just to make sure I wouldn't lose my touch. However, when all of these clients came to me, it was their idea, not mine.

   It would appear I have not lost my touch, to say the least. Three days ago, I got the results of a sales campaign I had written for a very famous person in the marketing and real estate business. You would know his name instantly but, for personal reasons, I think it's best I keep his identity confidential.

   In any case, the spreadsheet (Lord, I hate those things!) he sent me illustrated the copywriting I did for him pulled in 6-1/2 times MORE MONEY than anything written by any other copywriter he has ever hired. By the way, he's a multi-millionaire so he does have the money to hire the "creme de la creme" of copywriters in the entire world.

   I want to tell you about the last time I actively solicited for clients. I was living in Key West and informed the readers of my newsletter that, if they were willing to pay my fee ($15,000 upfront and 5% of the backend sales my efforts produced) I would pay all their expenses to fly to Key West and put them up in a hotel at my expense, while we discussed their project. I also told them if they did this, they didn't have to guarantee they would become a client of mine... but... they at least had to be a "for real" prospect to whom price would not be a concern.

   Many of those people did become clients. And a few did not. But there was one guy I especially remember. Why? Because, in my opinion, he was guilty of fraud. After I flew him to Key West, put him up in the best hotel, and discussed his project at length with him, he said, "Everything sounds great... but... I think $15,000 for your upfront fee is too much to pay you."

   I did everything I could to hold onto my temper but, what I really wanted to do was leap across the table we were sitting at, wrap my hands around his neck, lift him up off his chair and in the air, choking him until his entire body was shaking and his legs and feet were dancing around like he was doing the "Funky Chicken".

But, of course, I didn't do any of that.

   I simply ended the conversation immediately in a civil manner, took him back to his hotel and suggested he get an early flight back to wherever he lived. I think that man was genuinely bewildered by my sudden lack of zero interest in him and his project.

   See, it's no crime to not be able to afford the expertise of someone like myself. But, it is obnoxious to pretend you can afford someone like me... when... you flat-out already know you can't afford me... or... you are unwilling to pay the fees I charge.

   Look, I want you to understand something: I have untold
thousands of rabid readers of this newsletter. But, this message is truly only directed at a handful of them. Maybe only one or two. It is only directed to what I call "PWM" (which is an acronym for "Players With Money").

   Since it is my job to provide my readers with a learning
experience, I'm going to do that by demonstrating how to do
something I've never quite done before. Many copywriters have
written to me complaining they couldn't get any clients. I always tell them, there's no such thing as a world-class copywriter whoshould be hurting for clients. All he should have to do is write a sales pitch for his services. And, he should then be flooded with more clients than he can handle. By the way, I wrote a newspaper ad once for Jay Abraham that, when it was ran in a single newspaper, brought him in 602 potential clients.

   Anyway, if I were writing a pitch for my copywriting services (as I guess I am doing now) here are some of the points I would make:

* Gary Halbert may have hit more "financial home-runs" for his clients than anyone else in history! These clients include Ron LeGrand, Robert Allen, Ernest and Tova Borgnine, awardwinning actress Nancy Kwan, Vikki LaMotta and many others, too numerous to mention.

* Gary Halbert's biggest home-runs have been written for himself or companies in which he had some sort of ownership. Everybody knows about the famous "Coat-of-Arms" letter, which may be the most widely-mailed sales letter in the world with more than 600 million copies mailed. That family crest letter built an organization that needed 700 employees to keep it going... and... 40 of those employees were needed just to make the bank deposits!

* Gary wrote a sales letter for a diet product for Health Laboratories of America which was so good, it almost made skinny people buy the product! At one point, when the client had run out of diet-related mailing lists, on Gary's recommendation he got the compiled file of everybody in America who had a driver's license. Then, via computer, a simple calculation was done based on the height and weight information in that file. If it turned out a person weighed more than they should for their height, the client mailed Gary's sales letter to that individual. The client mailed millions of letters to that one file and made DOUBLE THE PROFIT.

* Gary has written for the biggest financial publishers in the world, including Phillips Publishing, KCI, Agoura Publishing and many others whose name you would not recognize! Once he wrote a "penny letter" for Phillips Publishing. (That's a letter that has a penny attached to the front page as a "grabber".) Phillips Publishing mailed so many of those sales letters, they actually had to have the Denver Mint produce many more pennies than they normally would have and had to have them shipped in box cars directly to the Phillips facility.

* When Tova Borgnine wanted to launch a new perfume, Gary not only created the winning formula for the perfume, he also wrote a newspaper ad that created the biggest perfume launch in history! His ad got more than 7,000 people to show up at the Century Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles. The ad also produced unsolicited purchase orders from monster department stores like Federated (the biggest department store chain in the world), Filines of Boston, the May Company and a host of others. The event was also written up in "Time" magazine. The work Gary did for the Borgnines literally put their company on the map and jumped their gross from $20,000 per month... to... $800,000 per month!

* Gary wrote an 8-page direct mail promotion for Howard Ruff that doubled his subscription base!

* Another company hired Gary to help them raise money for their IPO and his full-page newspaper ad (which appeared twice in "Investor's Business Daily") brought in enough qualified investors to produce nearly two hundred million dollars!

* Gary worked on the Nancy Kwan skin care commercials and made the breakthrough that enabled them to run profitably on TV for nearly two years!

* Gary wrote a direct mail promotion for CASI (Computer
Amusement Systems Inc.) that jumped their gross from three million... to... 13 million a year!

* But, Gary also made millionaires out of many "mom and pop" small type businesses who had very little to start with!

* Gary helped guys like Jeff Paul, Joe Polish and many others go from eating peanut butter and jelly sandwiches to become multimillionaires!

* George Zangas (world-famous power lifter) mailed a postcard Gary wrote for him... which... generated $1,000 for every $100 he spent! And George continued to make these profits even though he mailed it to the same list five different times!

* One of the marketers Gary admires greatly and who is worldfamous is Dan Kennedy. Dan Kennedy got his start in marketing working for Halbert's Inc. in Bath, Ohio. At a seminar about a year ago, Dan was talking about a guy who said he couldn't make a profit with the ad he was using. Dan looked at the ad and thought it was spectacular. Dan then discovered it was Gary Halbert who had written the ad! Dan told the guy (and you can hear it on tape), "There's no way to improve this ad. It was written by Gary Halbert. If you can get Gary, and you can get him interested, and you can get him focused, there's no way in the world you're going to get a better piece of marketing copy from anyone else on earth." Dan then pointed out to this guy it was not the ad that was failing but, it was the way the guy was exploiting (actually lack of exploiting) the ad and his failure to set up a proper infra-structure and several other things he was not doing properly. NOTE: I have not quoted Dan word-for-word about what he said about that ad because I do not have that tape right now. But, I have related accurately the gist of his comment.

* Gary's worked on 17 successful infomercials, wrote the two most successful direct response newspaper ads, has produced scores of highly-successful magazine ads, created several catalogs, developed phone scripts, etc.!

* Many people say you should include testimonials in all of your sales pitches. Gary stopped collecting unsolicited testimonial letters more than a decade ago after he had already received over 7,000 of them! Now that he has the most widely-read marketing newsletter on the Internet, it would almost be impossible for him to buy enough ink cartridges to print out all the rave testimonials he gets on a daily basis.

   Okay, those are just a few of the points I would make about
myself if I were writing an ad to pitch for clients. But, probably the most important consideration you should be aware of is... most of the time... I am not willing to take on any clients. But, I am a little bit "in heat" to work with a few clients now because I have just made what I believe to be is a truly gigantic marketing breakthrough. Everybody in marketing will know about this breakthrough a year from now... but... it will be old news by then. I believe it will work for years to come. But, I think the first people to use it are going to make money beyond their wildest dreams.

   You know, I could write a more compelling sales letter to you for my copywriting services. But frankly I'm tired of writing about myself and this half-assed, sloppy pitch is making me feel "funny". But, I do feel moved to tell you another story.

   I was recently contacted by a guy who said he had read each and every issue of my newsletters on my website and he was thinking about hiring me. He wondered if I would send him a portfolio of ads I had written for other people so he could evaluate whether or not I had enough talent to work for him. I was NOT polite with this guy. I told him something to the effect, "Look, if you've really read all my newsletters, many of which include examples of what I've written for other people, and you are still in doubt as to whether you should hire me or not, you are NOT a serious person." Actually, what I said was much more profane than that. But, I see no need to reprint it here.

   This deal is not for everyone. There are certain people who
shouldn't even think about calling me in response to this offer. So please, if you fall into even one of the following categories... do NOT contact me to become a client of mine:

* I don't want to waste one single second with somebody who cannot afford my $15,000 upfront fee and/or thinks they are going to be able to hire me at a discount.

* Also, I don't want to talk with anyone who has to check with anyone else as to whether or not they should hire me. If you have to check with your lawyer, your accountant, your spouse, your mommy or your daddy or anyone else, just assume it wouldn't be a good idea and don't waste my time.

* My methods are unusual, to say the least. Don't expect me to slow down to a crawl just to make you comfortable. When it comes to money, I go right for the jugular and, if this takes you out of your comfort zone, you should look in the Yellow Pages of your phone book under "Advertising Agencies" and go ahead and waste your time talking to one of those brilliant Ph.D.'s who'll be happy to create a much more conventional (and totally unprofitable) campaign for you.

* And, I'm not looking for anyone who has to scrape up the money to hire me. It puts way too much pressure on me to know someone has bet their entire life's savings on me producing a winner for them. And that, if it's not a huge winner, they and their family will be reduced to eating bark off trees.

* Another thing, if you are hiring me to write a promotion for you, I will want to get a lot of information from you. But, you need to remember that once I have this information, I will write what I think is the best and ask you to check it for factual accuracy. But, I will NOT change the sales pitch I have created just because you and/or your spouse (or someone else) thinks the ad would work better if it were
written differently. There is an exception to this. If you, yourself, have written sales pitches (as I have) that have generated billions of dollars in profitable revenue, then I will be interested in what you have to say.

   One last thing, I am only one person and I can only do so much work. I've got a spectacular new marketing concept which I think will work like crazy... and... the best time of the year to market most products is the month of January. So, if you are at all interested in hiring me and becoming a client of mine ("for real"!) call me at (305) 534-7577. If I'm not available to take your call, simply leave your name and contact information (phone number and best times to reach you) and I'll return your call as soon as humanly possible..

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

*P.S. In my opinion, what I've just written is a lousy "sales pitch". I could do much better if I gave it the time and effort it deserves. Basically, the pitch can be boiled down to "I'm Gary Halbert and I'm eager and willing to write for clients for about the next 30-days. So if you're interested, call me right away at 305/534-7577."

 

*P.P.S. I feel a little guilty about writing this long e-mail message to you. I think I should only write you brief e-mails informing you I've posted a new newsletter on my website. But, I can't help it. I am so excited about this marketing concept, I wanted to get this message to you on the same day Bush won the Presidency. I'll behave from now on. I promise.

 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Gary Hates Hurricanes

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/hurricane.htm

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

This may be the most important e-mail you will ever receive.

 At least from me.

 I haven’t written a newsletter for nearly two months. This has caused some people to wonder if I am sick or something. I am not. I feel great and, as far as I know, I enjoy almost perfect health.

 But, the entire state of Florida is a disaster area. I’ve just taken a road trip here of nearly 1,000 miles. You wouldn’t believe the damage I’ve seen. Thousands of people have lost everything.

 So, I’ve decided to give a FREE teleseminar and give away at least 90-minutes of hard-core marketing secrets. You don’t have to pay a dime to be on this teleseminar. But what I am hoping, of course, is you will find the teleseminar so valuable you will be moved to write a check to the Red Cross Hurricane Relief Fund.

 Right now, I’m in the process of choosing a teleseminar service and I need to know at least approximately how many people will be on the conference call.

 So, here’s what I’m asking you to do right now. If you are interested in this teleseminar, please send me an e-mail immediately that just says, “I’m interested” in the subject line. Send your e-mail to me at…

 kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com

 That won’t obligate you to be on the call. But, I’ll take it as an indication you might be on it and thus I can make an intelligent choice when it comes to hiring a teleconference service.

 I’ll write soon giving you all the details. But, for now, do me a small favor and let me know if you have any interest whatsoever of being on the call.

       

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Save The World Kill Yourself Now!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/population.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Monday, 4:42 p.m. 

 

 Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I want to show you a graph. I'm putting it right here on the first page of this letter. Don't just look at it. Study it and reflect on it some.

 

Some observations: In the 400 years from the year 1500 to the year 1900, the population of this planet (earth) increased at an average rate of just under three million people per year. However, in the 100 years from 1900 to 2000, the average yearly increase was... 44 million per year!

Here's some thoughts you may not yet have thunk:

1.   There are (at least by my calculations) more people alive today... than all the humans who have ever lived since the dawn of civilization.

2.   99% of all the scientists who have ever lived... are alive today.

3.   99% of all the geniuses who have ever lived... are alive today.

4.   99% of all the idiots who ever lived... are alive today.

5.   99% of all the peaceful, law-abiding people who have ever lived... are alive today.

6.   99% of all the crooks, thieves, murderers, terrorists, etc. who have ever lived... are alive today.

7.   More info is contained in one daily edition of the New York Times... than was available in the entire 17th century.

8.   More new info comes out now every day... than an army of 10,000 people could absorb. In fact, 10,000 people couldn't even catalog it all.

9.   The acceleration of the acceleration is accelerating. It's only going to be 21 more years until there are seven BILLION people living on this ball of mud.

10. There is no such thing as some sort of technology which has been developed... that won't someday be used. You can't pass a law which will stop stem cell research, atomic energy research, hi-tech pornography, or the development of new hybrid orchards.

Technology is now KING, right?

I beg to differ. If you had to have someone write something for you, which would you prefer: (A) A triple-digit I.Q. geek working with the most sophisticated computer ever built with a thousand "How To Write" software programs... or... (B) William Shakespeare, Thomas Jefferson, Ernest Hemingway or me working with a quill pen and parchment paper?

Here Is A Story For You...

A shepherd was herding his flock in a remote pasture when suddenly a brand new BMW advanced out of a dust cloud toward him. The driver, a young man in a Broni suit, Gucci shoes, YSL tie and Ray Ban sunglasses leans out of the window and asks the shepherd, "If I tell you exactly how many sheep you have in your flock, will you give me one?"

The shepherd looks at the man who is obviously a Princeton grad, then looks at his grazing flock and calmly answers, "Sure, why not?"

The yuppie parks his car, whips out his Sony notebook computer, connects to his AT&T cell phone, surfs to a NASA page on the Internet where he calls up a GPS satellite navigation system to get an exact fix on his location. He feeds that data to another NASA satellite which scans the area in an ultra-high resolution photo.

The young man then opens the digital photo in Adobe Photoshop and exports it to an image processing facility located in Hamburg, Germany.

Within seconds, he receives an e-mail on his "Palm Pilot" that the image has been processed and the data stored.

He then accesses a MS-SQL database through an ODBC connected Excel spreadsheet with hundreds of complex formulas. He uploads all of this data via an e-mail on his "Blackberry" and, after a few minutes, receives a response.

Finally, he prints out a full-color, 150-page report on his hi-tech, miniaturized HP Laser jet printer and turns to the shepherd and states, "You have exactly 1,586 sheep."

"That's right. Well, I guess you can take one of my sheep," says the shepherd.

He watches the young man select one of the animals and looks on, amused as the young man stuffs it into the trunk of his car.

Then the shepherd says to the young man, "Hey, if I can tell you exactly what your business is, will you give me back my sheep?"

The young man thinks about it for a second and replies, "Okay, why not?"

"You're a consultant," says the shepherd.

"Wow! That's correct," answers the yuppie. "But how did you guess that?"

"No guessing required. You showed up here even though nobody called you... you want to get paid for an answer I already knew to a question I never asked... and... you don't know shit about my business.

"Now Give Me Back My Dog!"

Far fetched? Not at all. There are plenty of high-I.Q., hi-tech wizards who have their heads shoved up so far their hi-tech assholes, they too probably can't tell a sheep from a dog.

You know that kid I wrote about in my last posting, Rob Sandusky? He's created a website which gets a BILLION hits a day. He did it with a starting bankroll of $130.00.

But, guess what? He HATES to read. He said other than what's required reading from school, he probably doesn't average reading one book per year. He's part of a growing scary trend in America. The last data available is from 2002 and, in that year, there were 89.9 million Americans who had not read a single book. That's hideous. Why? Because it is impossible for a non-reader to be even half-assed educated!

Anyone who lacks even a half-assed education is going to come to grief. At the very least, that person will miss out on the wondrous complexity of the world in which he inhabits.

Listen: I get thousands of letters of praise. I read and treasure all of them... yet... I simply can't respond to each of them. But, I want to share one of those letters with you. It's from a man who sent me a gold-plated letter opener which I treasure along with his letter (reproduced below).

T. Babatunde

Wednesday 16, 2:33pm

June 2004

Dear Gary,

I don't know how best to start this letter, but I will write simply what comes to me and hope you get what it feels to me to read your written work.

I don't know how or when I developed a fascination for the written word. But something inside of me just latched on to this like a dog to bone. And since that first time, I've tried to read everything on copywriting I could find. Some of these books were a little helpful, others were total nonsense.

But nothing broke the mold like... when I discovered your website. I think your name was mentioned on some site I was on, and I thought I should check you out. And I was literally blown away.

I was blown away, because here at last is someone giving valuable and life enhancing secrets without asking for anything in return. I opened and read every envelope, with feverish delight.

I downloaded and printed everything, and ran out of ink.

I was afraid to leave the house to get another cartridge, in case it won't be there when I come back. Since that time, I've read almost everything about your work, and bought some of your copywriting stuff I could afford.

The reason why I'm writing to you now is just to say that each time I hear your name, my soul sings. It sings in joyful delight and gratitude. I don't know if you're aware how generous your newsletters are to several aspiring copywriters. One thing is, most people who have been blessed in one way or another hoard their wisdom, and can't bear to share it with the world. But you are different.

I wish to God I could write like you. I know given time it would come. In this letter, I just want to say "Thank you." Thank you for being the one person who inspires me. Thank you for your giving. Thank you for being the only man on this planet dead or alive that has single handedly given more to aspiring copywriters. Thank you, for you are truly God's gift to writers.

I don't know if our paths will ever cross, but if they do... I don't even know what to say. But simply "Thank you for being you." And thank you for giving guys like me the opportunity to know you.

I've enclosed a small gift as a token of my appreciation. Maybe the next time you use this to open a letter, or your hand touches it, I hope you remember there is a guy in lil' ol' England who thinks the world of you. Hoping that your days continue to be enriched and blessed.

With so much appreciation,

T. Babatunde

 

Here's what's important about what this man did. He printed-out all my newsletters... and... he read them by holding a piece of real paper in his hand on which there were printed words in real ink!

There's no other educational experience in the world that comes close to that learning experience.

And, I want to publicly thank Mr. Babatunde for his heartfelt letter.

Listen: I came as close to death as I've ever been about 1-1/2 weeks ago. I was rushed by ambulance to Mercy Hospital here in Miami with a resting pulse rate of 115 and a blood pressure of 222/122. It's the first time I've ever spent a night in the hospital in my entire life.

They took X-rays of me one after the other. They drew vial after vial of my blood and analyzed it. They hooked me up to an EKG machine for 24-hours.

And, guess what? They could find nothing "wrong" with me. My health, as far as a battery of health care professionals could tell, is perfect. (I find that hard to believe.)

So, what was I suffering from? A plain ol' fashioned "killer" nervous breakdown. Lately, like a lot of other people, I've let my life slide down into a miasma of work, worry, stress and trying desperately to juggle more balls than is humanly possible.

No more. That real-life nightmare was a wake-up call for me. Even a perfectly healthy person can die of a stroke or heart attack with a blood pressure reading as high as I had.

I'm back to the core fundamentals which made my life work. I'm back doing road work on my treadmill, back working out at the gym, back watching my eating habits... and... if I can't get all my work done in an eight-hour day...

It Ain't Gonna Get Done!

All this relates to what I'm trying to communicate in this letter. You, too, need to be concentrating on the core fundamentals of life. And, one of those is reading!

Now we come to the really big lesson of this day. Stop reading about how to write copy for a while. Stop reading about marketing. Stop reading and trying to keep up with the latest computer breakthroughs. Instead...

Read Books On Salesmanship!

I learned more about how to write copy while selling encyclopedias door-to-door than from any other source.

End of lecture. That's it for this issue.

       

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary (very happy to be alive)  Halbert

 

P.S.   You know when they give you a really thorough EKG they attach an endless amount of little round sticky things to your body. Each of these sticky things has a piece of metal sticking up like a steel nipple. They hook these "nipples" up to cables.

Anyway, the hospital sent me home with so many sticky things attached to my body... I was still finding new ones and pulling them off (it hurts!) after three days.

 One last thing: This letter is dedicated to Ken Kerr, one of the finest men I've ever met. He's in Intensive Care at Scopps Hospital in La Jolla, California and his organs are shutting down. I pray he gets to read this and, I hope all my readers will also send up a prayer for him.

Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Little Bill Gates

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/littlebill.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Monday, 9:15 a.m. 

 

 Dear Friend & Subscriber,

This message is going to be short and sweet and... for many of you...

The Most Electrifying

Message I've Ever Written!

It seems I have been discovered by the youth of America, many of whom seem to be fascinated by my work. Some of these kids have such profound and innovative ideas, it reminds me afresh of just how powerful an uncluttered young mind can be.

There's one kid in particular I've been hanging out with who is almost not to be believed. I call him "Little Bill" even though his name is Rob. I call him "Little Bill" because I think this kid is maybe going to be the Bill Gates of this millennium.

Listen to this: He started a website with $130.00. In no time at all, his Alexa rating was 206... and... it stayed there for more than a month!

He Gets Approximately

One BILLION Hits Per Day!

"Little Bill" lives in Birmingham, Alabama and hates it because he has almost no one to relate to there.

His Internet traffic now is so high, he needs new software to handle it all. But, he's a 15-year-old kid and doesn't have any money.

What he needs is an investor. I'm not talking about a big-time investor either. He says he needs about $9,000.00. But, I think he's giving me a figure that represents what he needs if he does everything on a "bare bones" basis.

I think he ought to have a little more so he'll have some sort of cushion. Listen, I can't really talk to this kid. His only passion is computers and he's so advanced technologically, he's like a guy who designed a 747 talking to another guy (me) who's excited because he just discovered fire.

This is not a deal for me. But, for some of you who are computer literate... and... have a few bucks to invest, you ought to talk with him.

His full name is Rob Sandusky and he has two cell phones. The numbers are (205) 422-6725 and (205) 915-8491.

His e-mail address is Robs@UnitedEmailSystems.com.

If you're interested, contact him directly. And listen, if this ever turns into a big-time deal...

Throw A Few Crumbs

My Way!

     

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S. This message will soon be followed by a more "typical" newsletter on which I've been working for a couple months.

     Peace.

 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Jason J. Cox

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/jasonjcox.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Tuesday, 10:07 a.m.

   

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I almost NEVER do what I'm going to do right now.

What is this rare thing I'm going to do? Thank you for asking. What I'm going to do is... ask you to click on the link at the bottom of this letter.

When you do that, you will go to a message written by a 19-year-old-kid. This kid has read all my newsletters and studied just as hard as I did when I was first getting started in direct response.

He has come up with a REAL way you can make serious money... even if... you don't have a product to sell, don't have a mailing list, don't have any credibility, or don't have much money.

His name is Jason Cox and he's so excited about what he has discovered, he's on fire about making nearly $20,000 with his idea. It's refreshing to read his sales letter because, in fact, he grossly underestimates the value of what he has developed. What he's got to teach will be a dream come true for many of my subscribers. It's actually something that can get you out of your daily grind almost immediately.

Jason's written a very good sales letter... but... it stumbles in a few ways he doesn't know about yet. I was tempted to "touch up" his letter in a few spots but, I decided not to. I want you to read it "raw" just like he wrote it.

Speaking of "raw", I wish I had all the raw, "amateur" letters I wrote when I was just getting started. It would be fun to compare them side-by-side with the copy I write now.

Anyway, back to Jason... this kid is going to be wealthy. His copy now (although it has flaws) is plenty good enough to get his message across.

I think you need to read it, print it, and keep it in your "swipe" file. And, to tell the truth, I think you should purchase what he has to offer. Listen: I almost NEVER endorse anything out of all the hundreds of people who constantly want to pitch their products to my list.

But, I AM endorsing this kid. I have his product and, it really is a breakthrough that almost nobody knows about. Do yourself a favor and click on the link below. Do it right now. You won't be sorry.

 

www.JasonJCox.com

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S. This letter makes me feel like I am writing about myself when I was decades younger.

     Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Engineered Paradigm Changes...Continued

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/paradigms.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Thursday, 3:42 p.m.

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

      This letter is following close on the heels of my last newsletter.

      That's because I want to write you while the concept of "Engineered Paradigm Changes" is fresh in your mind.

      Once again, a "paradigm change" is an entire shift in the way you think about something. A simple example would be you being irritated with someone because he is not paying attention to some important instructions you are giving him. He seems indifferent to what you are saying and, in fact, even though he is just a few feet from you, it's like he doesn't even hear you.

      So, you move closer to him, invade his space and start to give him hell. Then, about 30-seconds into your rant, you notice he's holding a cell phone in his hand and staring at it with eyes as empty as a vacant lot.

      "What's with you?" you ask loudly and belligerently.

      His eyes snap back into focus and he replies, "Oh boss, I'm sorry. I just got a call from my Dad and he told me my Mother was just killed in a car crash. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry. I guess I've been sort of out of it for the last few minutes."

      Your attitude immediately changes. Your anger instantly evaporates. Your "posture" is now replaced with tenderness. You express concern and compassion and ask if there's anything... anything whatsoever... you can do to help.

      What you just experienced is a "paradigm change". What the rest of this letter is about is "engineered" paradigm changes. "Engineered" paradigm changes which can add huge amounts of bottom-line profits to your marketing efforts.

      Let's start with something simple like the "Law of Reciprocity". The way it works is, if someone does something nice for you, you feel obligated to do something nice in return for them.

      I'm sure you've received numerous mailings from charity organizations which included, as a free gift for you, a packet of personalized address labels. Those little ones with your name and address already printed on them. You know, the return address labels you put on the upper left corner of an envelope when you are mailing a letter to someone.

      Those labels don't legally obligate you in any way whatsoever to make a donation to the charity that sent them to you. However, those little labels do emotionally obligate you. And, you know what? 

Including Those "Free" Labels

In Their Direct Mail Promotions

EXPONENTIALLY Increases Their Results!

      If the letter was written deftly, it produced a rather small (but profitable) "engineered" paradigm change in your feelings toward the charity that sent you those "free" labels.

     Now, let's move to a "killer" example of an "engineered" paradigm change.

      Let's say a guy has a business washing, waxing and detailing high-end automobiles and SUV's. You found him in the phone book and, since he wasn't too far away, you took your vehicle to his company to have it all spiffed up. The company does a good job, your vehicle looks great, you pay them, take your spiffed-up vehicle and, go off on your merry way.

      And, that's it.

      Except... it isn't.

      Because... a few days later, you get a letter from the guy with the car-spiffing business. He tells you that the other day, the day you brought your car in to be detailed, one of his workers found $2.89 when he was cleaning the inside of your car. And the letter goes on to say that worker turned the money over to him (the owner of the business). And, since the owner didn't get to see you before you left with your vehicle, he felt it necessary to return the money to you in with his letter. Also, he was sending you three $1 bills instead of the exact $2.89... because... he didn't want to send a bunch of coins in the mail. The owner closes his letter by thanking you for your business and says he hopes he has the chance to serve you again. 

Gotcha!

      What a nice thing for him to do! What an honest man! I bet if you got another letter or a call from him about three weeks later suggesting it might be time to get your car detailed again... I bet if your car did need spiffing up again... you'd be inclined to take your car right back to that same place. I bet you'd feel... 

About Ten Times More

Inclined Than If You Had

NOT Received That Letter

Returning Your Money!

      Which, by the way, really was NOT your money. It was simply a small "investment" on the part of the owner of the car cleaning business.

      Remember when those pain-in-the-ass Hare Krishnas used to infest all the big airports in the U.S.? And how they would always hand you a flower as a "gift of peace" before hitting you up for a donation? Very likely, what you did was, you gave them a couple bucks and, then tossed the flower in the nearest trash receptacle.

      Periodically, the Hare Krishnas would go around to all the trash receptacles and retrieve the flowers everybody was throwing away. Why? So they could pass them out again to other people.

      Guess why they kept passing out those flowers? The answer is easy... 

It Increased Their Donations

EXPONENTIALLY!

      Let's explore something a little less unsavory. My website is one of the most popular on the Internet. It is also, I believe, one of the most profitable. It is, as a I reflect upon it, an example of a somewhat unconscious engineered paradigm change. Here is the honest-to-God real story of how my newsletters came to be posted on the Internet for everyone to read 100% free.

      As you may or may not know, I've been writing my newsletters since September of 1986. (Oh Lord, it just struck me! Do you realize I now have thousands of readers who weren't even BORN when I started writing it?) Damn, it sucks the way that makes me feel.

      To hell with it. Back to work: I was selling my newsletter for $195.00 per year... and... I charged almost $3,000 for a Lifetime subscription... and... more than half my subscribers were Lifetime subscribers. So, why would I give up all that subscriber income and make my letters available for free on the 'net?

      Well, I stopped counting more than ten years ago but, by that time, I had received more than 3,000 letters from people telling me how reading my newsletters had turned their lives around. Mostly, the turn around was financial. But, not all. A lot of those letters were about how I had helped someone on a personal level. About how reading one or more of my letters prevented a divorce, a suicide, a long-term depression, etc.

     Some of the letters were hard for me to read. Some of the phone calls I got made me feel uncomfortable and unreal. I'm going to tell you about just one of them and, I swear, it's uncomfortable for me to write. But, it will "set-you-up" perfectly for the point I want to make.

      I was talking with a guy on the phone one day and he tells me my monthly newsletter... is what he lives for! He said a year ago, he had a lot of money, good health, a great wife and, a great life. But, he said now he had lost it all. The wife and the money were gone... plus... for some reason (I don't remember why)... 

Both His Legs

Had Been Amputated!

      He said he thought often about suicide... but... it was my newsletter that kept him going.

      Please believe me, I am NOT saying this to brag. It embarrasses me. I guarantee you... if... you've put me up on a pedestal... I am NOT who you think I am!

      Thus, as it says on the opening page of my website: 

"Well, hell... if what I write helps people this much, it should be available to everyone... even if... they can't afford to subscribe to my newsletter. Therefore, I've put all my newsletters (with very sparse editing) right here on this website... for... everyone in the world... to read...

 

"Absolutely Free!"

 

     And so, I started putting my newsletters up, one right after the other. The website took off like wildfire. Remember how I wrote a page or two ago I had received (until I stopped counting) at least 3,0000 rave letters? Well, now that my newsletter is read in something like 90 countries, I receive so many of those type letters (usually via e-mail)... that... if I printed them all out, I could wallpaper the Empire State Building with them.

      But, I also get a lot of other letters. Skeptical letters. Why was I really giving away my newsletters for free? What was I really up to? Why was I really giving all this valuable info away?

      And then, I got other letters saying stuff like, "Don't you have anything to sell?" "Don't you have anything I can buy?" "Do you offer seminar tapes?" "What about tape transcripts? Services? Consulting? Anything?"

      I came to learn that nothing creates more skepticism than an honest man. This is so true that, sometimes during a business deal, I pretend to be working an angle when I'm really not. In other words, I actually lie about being honest and straightforward. It makes me more understandable to people. More believable when I say something like, "Listen, I don't want this to get out... but... I could get a cut on every ashtray that's sold!"

      Ah, now he understands!

      See, my website creates a paradigm change in people. They first read it with skepticism. Then, when they find out they really are getting great info 100% free, they start reading it with gratitude. Then, when I do offer something for sale like a seminar, or my "Motherload Collection", or "The Boron Letters", or what have you, my sales pitch is NOT met with resistance or skepticism.

      I didn't plan it this way. That's just how it evolved. But, here's the thing: 

If I Knew How It

Was Going To Play Out,

I Would Have Done It That Way...

Deliberately!

      And therein lies a profit-making opportunity for many of you. Are you an expert at something? Do you have some special knowledge which would be of value to others?

      Why don't YOU publish a website? A FREE website? Why don't you give people a lot of free info and ask for nothing in return? Don't hold back either. Give them the real secrets. Then, after a rather long period, hold a seminar, sell a book, or offer consulting, etc. In other words... why don't you DELIBERATELY do what I sorta stumbled into doing mindlessly?

      One of the biggest (and most valuable) paradigm changes you can engineer is when you get a skeptical person (like a person who thinks you are a con man)... instead discovers... you are for real and honest. 

     This newsletter is making me look like too good of a guy. So, I've decided to end with something sleazy. Let's go full circle back to where I was writing about my psycho cat.

      Suppose you're dating a young lady and you desperately want to seduce her. She's a vegetarian, a "tree hugger" and an animal lover. Your relationship is going okay with her but, she hasn't exactly "melted" yet. (By the way, men stiffen, women melt.) So anyway, you've wisely never discussed your feelings about animals with her. But one day you find yourself driving with her to a movie or dinner or something. You take a short cut and you find yourself driving down a deserted street. You see a straggly-looking cat. In fact, you see five of them.

      You slow down the car to a stop and ask the woman to excuse you for a just a few quick minutes. You get out of the car, open the trunk and take out a half-empty (NEVER full) bag of cat food, a half-empty jug of water,  and some paper bowls you bought at WalMart for $1.97. You then walk around to the front of the car  where the cats are gathered. They back away from you. But, no matter. You fill some bowls with cat food and a few other bowls with water. You put the stuff back into the trunk and get back into the car. You ask your date if you can wait a minute or two before you leave.

     Naturally, she's going to ask why (she is a female, after all) you did what you just did.

      "Ah, I don't know," you reply. "I guess I've just got a soft spot for animals. Look how they're wolfing down that food. I bet those poor guys haven't eaten for days. I just like to help them whenever I can. The way I look at it, those are animals with souls the world has abandoned. Oh well, enough of that. We can go to the movies now."

      And you drive off... and... THIS IS IMPORTANT: You change the subject. You talk about the movie you're going to see or the restaurant where you are going to eat or something like that.

      But, she won't be listening to what you are saying. You know why? Because she will be sitting there melting... thinking what a great guy... what a WONDERFUL guy... you are. So kind to animals. So thoughtful (you even carry food for stray cats in your trunk.) She won't know it consciously... but... if she ever had even the remotest thought of ever sleeping with you...  

She Will Now Be 10 Or 20 Times

MORE Likely To Sleep With You!

      All because you spent a little chump change to buy a bag or two of cat food! Damn! That's such a deliciously sleazy trick you can use to get laid... 

It Makes My Heart Sing!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.#1        Remember how this newsletter is about "engineered" paradigm change? As you read the "poor-stray-cats" story, you got the point you "engineered" that setting, didn't you? You already knew those cats would be in that deserted street... because... you had previously scouted out that area. Get it in your heads, "Engineered" Paradigm Change! "Engineered" Paradigm Change! "Engineered" Paradigm Change! It's so easy to make happen.

 

P.S.#2        In keeping with the spirit of this letter, I've got something you need to buy. Don't worry. It doesn't cost much... and... after you read about it, you are definitely going to want it. Just click on the link below to read all about it...

 SleazyPitch

 

                  Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Proof That Gary Halbert Is Really Rather Stupid

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/reallyrather.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Thursday, 12:51 p.m.

  

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I've gotta eat some crow... so... I may as well start chewing.

I'm going to keep this short and sweet. Recently, I wrote a newsletter about the desperate need for people in direct response to have a good merchant account.

I wrote that anyone who needs a merchant account should e-mail me and I would contact them. I said that if I deemed them worthy, I would pass their info on to a processor who might be able to help them. Well...

I Must Have Been

Out Of My Mind!

So many people e-mailed me, I can't even imagine how long it would take  me to have a telephone chat with them all.

Plus, both computers I've been using have crashed and burned. One of them was diagnosed with having 53 viruses! Needless to say, I "lost" a lot of your e-mails in the process.

I've decided to take myself out of the middle and give ALL my readers the name of the processor. This is what I should have done in the first place.

If you need a merchant account, you need to send an e-mail to:

nickhendriks@MultiCards.com

Tell Nick ALL about your business... and... that you are writing him because you're a reader of my newsletter.

You'll get a prompt reply from him. Especially since it won't be me and my viruses you'll be dealing with.                                   

      

 	 With Apology,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S. I really feel sorry about this. I wish you the best of luck.

            Peace.

 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Let's Give Castration A Chance!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/castration.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

      My cat is despicable.

       I hate him. When I first got him, he was the cutest thing I'd ever seen. Barely old enough to be weaned, a fuzzy, little black and white ball of fur with trusting little blue eyes that could charm the world. I'd walk down Ocean Drive with him and I could never get even half a block without some pretty girl stopping me so she could pet Alfred.

       All that's changed now. He's gone psycho on me. He zooms around the office like he's O.D.'d on meth. He bites. He stalks. He lunges. He attacks... and... in general, he makes himself as much of a pain in the ass as is within his feline capabilities.

       I'm as cruel to him as I know how to be. I hit him, shake him, kick him, throw him against walls... plus... I do truly terrible things to him with a hot fork.

       There are certain people in this world (like Karen Redpath) who believe cats can do no wrong. They always have some excuse, some "reason why" shitty behavior on the part of a cat should be tolerated: He was weaned too soon; he's still a teenager with raging hormones; you're feeding him the wrong food; his litter-mates shunned him; or whatever.

       Personally, I don't give a damn. If something bites and scratches and attacks me, I'm gonna fight back. In the case of Alfred, one day I had an inspiring thought. I picked him up, stroked him gently, looked into his trusting kitty-cat eyes and said, "I'm gonna have your nuts cut off!"

       And so I did.

       It helped, it really did. It didn't cure him but, it did slow him down and I don't have to use the fork on him quite so often these days.

       Here's a related story... and... as Dave Barry would say, "I am not making this up. I swear it's true."

       A couple weeks ago I'm riding in a car with a mild-mannered friend of mine. We're going to downtown Miami to get some copies made or something. We're zipping across the 5th Street Causeway and we come to our exit. Like all good little motorists, when we turn off and come to a stop sign... we stop.

       And we are immediately descended upon by two tough-looking black teenagers with a bottle of Windex and a handful of filthy rags. My friend tries to wave them off. He gestures and shakes his head "no" very emphatically. It didn't matter. They were like "human Alfreds"; they wouldn't stop. They start to spray goop on the windshield.

       Wanna know what my friend does? Without saying a word, he puts the car into reverse, backs it up... then... puts it in drive and charges right at them! They squeal and yell like stuck pigs. They are outraged and very vocal about it. So guess what else? My friend backs up... and... goes for them again!

Strangest of all is my reaction. I know this sounds insane... but... I was glad about what my friend was doing. I wasn't expressing it outside... but inside... I was cheering him on.

       I know it's not right. You can't go around running people down because they're annoying you. But damnit, there is so much annoyance in modern life, it's no wonder people "snap" every once in a while.

       Remember that case (a few years back) of the teenage boy who was in the Middle East somewhere and he was spray painting graffiti all over whatever town he was in? Remember how the news media in this country was outraged his punishment was to be tied to a post and given 'x' number of lashes?

       My immediate reaction when I heard that was, "Good! If the little bastard can't take an ass-kicking, then he should learn how to act like a decent human being."

       I was ashamed of those feelings. But then, I read a poll which said... 80% of Americans felt the same way I did!

       The people of America are, I believe, finally getting fed up. We've nearly reached the stomach-turning point. We have "compassion fatigue". The fact your great granddaddy was a slave or your parents wouldn't let you have a puppy when you were five doesn't cut it as good reasons... why... you should not be held responsible for your actions (I'm not even going to mention the ungrateful slimebags in the Middle East). What it's coming down to really is...

 

The Producers Versus

The Parasites!

 

      Another true story: Years back, I met Connie Stevens, the singer. The one who used to be married, I think, to Eddie Fisher. Ms. Stevens is a great champion of American Indians and she would have charity get-togethers to help them. She wanted me to help her with her efforts so I went to one of those gatherings. It was pathetic. All those dorks standing around at this cocktail party moaning about how unfair the American Indian has been treated.

       I found it all pretty disgusting until a guy next to me... an Indian... said, "This is all bullshit. Indians don't need charity. They need to get off their asses and go to work. The real 'Indian Problem' is most of them are just a bunch of lazy drunks."

       He's right. America offers the same opportunities for American Indians as it does for what you might call American Americans. But, I'll tell you this: If you let any group of people suck on the government tit for free for a long enough period of time... they'll come to believe... the world owes them a living.

       By and large, Indians suck. Basically, they're scum. I feel free and clear to say this because (1) I have to believe what my eyes see, and (2) because, by and large, I, myself am American Indian.

       Alas, I digress. Let me make my point and then move on. Listen: We've tried welfare. We've tried food stamps. We've tried locking people up. We've tried program after program after program. So, henceforth and thusly, I suggest unto thee...

 

Let's Give Castration

A Chance!

 

      It's simple. It's fast. It's cheap. And, it's effective. Denmark uses it on sex offenders and it works like a charm.

       By the way, did you know child molesters are never cured? They never stop their behavior except when they're locked up, executed... or... castrated.

       I propose we do full castration on all habitual criminals and a "partial" on all first offenders. Imagine this scenario: Rufus Slimeola and his merry little group of gang-bangers are cruising in their tricked-out Bronco with their bowel movement music going full blast. They spot some pretty girls and get out of the Bronco to talk with them. Rufus pulls one of them into an alley, beats her, rapes her, then kicks her a few times and moves on.

       He gets reported to the cops and he gets picked up. No big deal. Rufus has been arrested 17 times before. Usually, he ends up spending a few days inside visiting with his homeboys and often, it doesn't even come to that. Actually, more often than not, Rufus walks almost immediately because... there are so many "Rufuses"... the "system" just can't handle them all.

       Check this out: If you want to go to jail for stealing a car in Miami, you have to do it nine times. That's no joke! There's so much crime here, the sentence guidelines say you've got to be guilty nine times before you do even one day of time. Which means, of course, you're probably going to have to steal 200 or 300 cars before you're actually caught and found guilty nine times.

       Back to Rufus. This time Rufus is not taken to the holding tank. Nobody gets him a lawyer. Nobody reads him his rights or bothers to listen to his "attitude rap". Instead, he is immediately taken to an infirmary, strapped down, given a local anesthetic and one of his testicles (my damn cat is eating part of my newsletter now) is removed. He's bandaged up and released with a friendly warning...

                         "Well, Rufus... we got one of 'em now... and... if you ever do wrong again...

                      snippy, snip-snip... there goes the other!"

       This would get Rufus' attention. Especially if all the cops would start wearing little gold scissors pinned to their shirt collars.

       Any of this got anything to do with marketing? Any of this have anything to do with you making a buck?

       You betcha! What you've just read is going to serve as an introduction to what just might be the most powerful marketing concept I've ever come up with. No! No! No! I am not suggesting we castrate the non-buyers. That might be going too far... even by my standards. And besides, some petty, little bureaucrat would probably find something wrong with the idea anyway.

       No, what I really want to introduce you to here is a concept I call "EPC" which stands for...

 

"Engineered Paradigm Change"

 

      First, just in case you haven't had your coffee yet, let me explain what a "paradigm" is. It's pronounced "para-dime" (like in penny, nickel, dime) and it is the frame of reference in which we operate.

       A book by Stephen L. Covey tells of the following incident: A father is on a subway with his two young sons. They are out of control. They're howling, and jumping up and down and running around like bats out of hell. In other words, they're acting like my cat, Alfred.

       During all of this, the father makes no effort whatsoever to discipline his children. He just sits there with a blank look on his face, oblivious to the pandemonium created by his kids.

       Finally, one of the other subway riders can't take it anymore. He approaches the father and says, "Excuse me Sir, but your children are out of control. They are upsetting everyone on this train. Don't you care at all? Aren't you going to do anything about it?"

       Then the father replies, "Oh my gosh! I'm so sorry. We just came from the hospital. Their mother has died and I'm pretty much out of it. I don't know how to handle it and I guess they don't either."

       The other subway rider goes through an immediate change. He's no longer angry. His anger has been replaced by compassion, he now wants to help.

       What has happened to that fellow subway rider is... he has undergone a paradigm change. His frame of reference is now very different. The "context" in which he views and evaluates the behavior of those out-of-control children has been completely altered.

       Now, know this:

 

Most Paradigm Changes

Happen By Accident!

 

      You're in an office and some dull clod invites you to a business-related dinner party. You know it's gonna be so boring, you'll hardly be able to stay awake. You're about to offer up a great excuse... when... all of a sudden... a splendid-looking young lady with an utterly dazzling smile interrupts to ask what the "dress code" is for the party.

 

Instant Paradigm Change!

 

      What was, an instant ago, a suffocatingly, boring business/social obligation has now become... an opportunity for excitement! And nothing changed about the event... except... the context in which you were relating to it.

       In the movie about Clark Gable's life, it starts by showing how he first met Carol Lombard who later became his wife. What happened was, she was going to a Hollywood party when she was jumped by a small group of really nasty guys. As she was trying to fend them off, Clark Gable happened by, saw what was going on, and came to her rescue. He waded right into the middle of that deal and beat the living shit out of the bad guys.

       Her relief was profound. She had an immediate "endorphin dump" which means pleasure-creating brain chemicals began to flood her system. This endorphin dump almost always occurs when someone suddenly experiences a huge relief from stress.

       Clark Gable couldn't have engineered a better beginning to his relationship with Miss Lombard. There is nothing which makes a person as immediately affectionate for you as you rescuing them.

       So, in this case, Clark Gable sure was lucky, right?

       Nope. Luck had nothing to do with it. You see, Clark Gable did engineer that fracas. Those "bad guys" weren't really bad guys at all; they were, in fact, studio stunt men who were doing Clark Gable a favor and making sure he got off on the right foot with the woman he was so attracted to. In other words, what we're talking about here is...

 

An Engineered Paradigm Change!

 

      The message is: If the context in which you are working isn't working for you... change the context!

       You know, when my mother died, I was naturally very affected. I remember a few times being in sort of a fog and having to apologize to people, "I'm sorry. I just learned my mother has died and I'm not thinking too clearly."

       What would happen is, a person who was annoyed with me would now become immediately sympathetic and want to be helpful in any way he or she could.

       John Carlton told me about a girl he knew in college who, whenever she missed a class, would use the excuse her grandmother had just died. The problem was, she "killed off" her grandma so many times, it became a struggle to remember which teachers she had used that ploy with and which ones she hadn't. Clearly, if you're gonna "kill off" your loved ones to engineer a paradigm change, you need to keep careful note of what you've told whom.

       OK, so maybe killing off loved ones is a little gross. How about something less gross... but still... very effective? So, let me tell you...

 

How I Invented

"Doctor" Feingold!

 

      A lady friend of mine was staying in a hotel in Orlando. It was a huge hotel and they must answer 1,000 calls an hour. Their standard telephone greeting is, "Blah Blah Hotel, please hold."

       They don't even give you a chance to talk. You're left there holding the phone for an eternity listening to some vapid, canned music. Finally, disgusted, you hang up, wait a while, and then call again. Same thing, "Blah Blah Hotel, please hold." Over and over, it was making me crazy.

       So, about the 7th time I called, before the person on the other end could even get started, I blurted out...

                        "Medical Emergency! Do Not Hang Up. This is Doctor Feingold. One

                    of my patients is a guest in your hotel and I must speak with her immediately!"

       I got right through.

       Does this seem a bit underhanded to you? It doesn't to me. When you think about it, what I did... did not hurt anyone. All it did was, get me the simple connection I think I was entitled to in the first place.

       Look, the way we're all treated today is unfair. We are reduced to being instantly put on hold or trying to communicate with "voice chips". I think Southern Bell here in Miami is having an efficiency contest within their employee ranks to see who can get their customers off the line the fastest... preferably... without even talking with them.

       For example, if you dial 411 for information here in the Miami area, you will not get a human being. You will get an infuriatingly syrupy "female" voice chip asking, "What City?" Then it waits for you to answer and it asks, "What listing?" Then it waits for you to answer again and it says, "Thank you." Then you get another voice chip giving you the phone number.

       At least, that's the way it's supposed to work. Often enough, it screws up. I just called to get the number of the Delano Hotel and ended up with the DeLido Hotel. And I had to call information again (another $1) to get the right number.

       But, that voice chip really can't tell what you are saying. All it responds to is sound. There's an operator lurking in the background listening to what you're saying so she can get that automated system of hers to give you the number you need without her having to dirty her hands by actually talking with you. (Does that work as a metaphor?)

       Here's what I do now: The voice chip asks, "What City?" and I yell...

 

AARUGH!

 

      Then, just like I had made an intelligent response, it asks, "What listing?" and I repeat a little longer...

 

AAAARUGH!

 

      And the voice chip says, "Thank you" and an operator comes on and, although she's upset (personally, I don't give a damn) she actually talks with me.

       (Dr. Feingold manifests himself in many ways.)

       Here's how I used to engineer a paradigm change when I was selling encyclopedias door-to-door. What they trained you to do was, dress up in a suit and tie, go to somebody's door while carrying a huge briefcase, knock loudly on the door... and... when someone opens it, you give them a big shit-eating smile, paw your feet back and forth on the ground (really) and ask if you can come in.

       Think about what that homeowner sees when he opens the door: An eager beaver, pushy person...

 

Who Has Salesman

Written All Over Him!

 

      Natural reaction of the homeowner? Tense up, get rid of him, tell him you're not interested.

       Now, compare that encounter with this one: You (the homeowner) open the door and about five yards away, a young man is standing with his back to you looking at the flowers in your yard. He's wearing a neat, short-sleeved shirt and he doesn't turn around when you open the door. He appears preoccupied. After a few seconds, you ask if you can help him. He turns around slowly with a shy smile. "Sorry, I didn't hear you open the door," he says. "I guess I got a little wrapped up in looking at your flowers. Listen, I think maybe I've got the wrong house. I'm looking for the Buckwheat family."

       "No," you say, "this is the right house. I'm Mr. Buckwheat."

       "Oh good," replies the young man. "I've been asked to get in touch with you. May I come in and talk with you for just a minute?"

 

Bingo! Sir Gary Of Halbert

Busts Another Door!

 

      My first direct mail success was the result of an engineered paradigm change... and... I've been using it ever since. Think about it: Most direct mail packages are like that door-to-door salesman. They begin screaming right from the envelope, "I want to sell you something! I want to sell you something!"

       My letters, as you know, almost always "sneak-up" on people. I think it's a big mistake to "telegraph" your intentions when you are selling. A little "warm-up" goes a long way.

       How do we use this insight to increase our marketing profits? There are many ways and they are very effective. I'm going to give you about a week to ponder this subject and then I'm going to explain to you in exquisite detail how... what you have you just read in this letter... can increase (by a large percentage) the amount of fungolas in your bank account. I suggest you re-read this letter several times to make sure you fully understand what I've written and are 100% prepared to immediately utilize the EPD profit-making techniques I'm going to share with you in the next edition of this newsletter.

       In the meantime, I've made myself a strange promise.

       I've decided to write something new and have it posted on my website (www.TheGaryHalbertLetter.com) every single day for the rest of my life. I've decided to call these little nuggets of writing "Halbertisms".

       So, every day from now on, you can go to my website and read something new! EVERY day! Seven days a week, 365 days a year. This will be separate from my monthly newsletter.

       Much of what I write will be marketing tips. Some of them will be wry observations on something which has amused me. Sometimes they will be vulgar and profane. Collectively, they will serve as an exhaustive written documentation of my abject insanity. This is where I'm gonna let it all hang out and write EXACTLY what I want to write. I do censor myself slightly when I write my monthly newsletter. But, not when I write the "Halbertisms".

       There are already 21 of these written and posted on the Internet. You'll find them at www.TheGaryHalbertLetter.com/HOTD/   "HOTD" stands for "Halbertism Of The Day".

       Check it out. You might learn something... plus... you might read something that amuses you and lightens your day.

       It's up on the Internet right now and... don't forget...

 

There Will Be A New One

Posted Every Single Day!

  www.TheGaryHalbertLetter.com/HOTD/

     

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

  P.S.  I can't think of anything to write as a "P.S." this month. So sue me.

 

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Direct Response

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/direct_response.htm

From:

North of Jewfish Creek

Tuesday, 10:45 a.m.

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Find a need and fill it.

These six words represent the most valid, core advice which has been given to would-be millionaires since the dawn of human ambition. Well, guess what? In this issue, I am going to illuminate a need so many business owners of America are so desperate for... that...

If You Find A Way To Fill It,

YOU Will Become a Multi-Millionaire!

Not only that, I am going to tell you how to go about finding out how to fill this particular need. Mind you, I personally do not know exactly how to fill this need... but... I do think I know how to find out how to do so.

Frankly, this is not an opportunity that can be seized upon by most of my readers. However, for one, two, or a few of you, what you are about to read here is going to reveal a way you can make so much money, it should satisfy your absolute wildest dreams of avarice.

The need I'm talking about is...

The Need Of Tens Of Thousands Of

Good, Honest Businessmen To Be Able

To Accept And Process Credit Card

Transactions!

To accept credit card orders, you must have what's known as a "merchant account". This is simply an account you set up with a bank affiliated with MasterCard and Visa. Through this account, you process all your MasterCard and Visa credit card orders.

It's no big deal. Almost any business owner in the U.S. can get one. Except, of course, unless you are in the seminar business. Or in the travel club business. Or if you sell by any form of direct response like newspaper ads, magazine ads, TV ads, or TV infomercials, or direct response radio spots, or direct mail, or...

Any Of A Thousand Other

Ethical Ways Of Doing Business!

I hear new "horror stories" almost every week. Recently, I got a call from an old friend in Manhattan. He's an honest, ethical guy I've known for years. He told me he has done 9.4 million dollars' worth of credit card business within the last 12-months or so. He also told me his bank just told him... he's got 30-days before they terminate his merchant account!

As you know (if you've been reading my newsletters for some time) the same thing previously happened to me.

And it's happening with greater and greater frequency... for no good reason... to thousands of businessmen every single month.

Actually, there is good reason for many of these merchant accounts being terminated. There are, for example, scammers who trick unwary victims into buying massively overpriced merchandise or goods and services which are never delivered at all. There are other outright thieves who, once they obtain a person's credit card info over the phone or through the mail, use that info to rack up thousands of dollars in fraudulent purchases for goods they later sell to a fence or other dishonest people for 10¢ on the dollar.

And, of course, there are honest but stupid business people who do not ship in a timely fashion, do not make adjustments or refunds promptly and who are totally indifferent to the idea of providing good customer service.

All this creates about three billion dollars in losses and chargebacks every year!

But the problem is... Visa, MasterCard and the banks make very little (if any) effort to separate the good guys from the bad guys. They simply refuse to take the trouble to evaluate businesses on a case-by-case basis. For example, several years ago, there was a memo sent out by either Visa or MasterCard (I forget which) that talked about all the scam artists involved in the travel club business. So, you know what one bank did? They automatically... and without discussion... terminated every merchant account on their books which had the word "travel" in its name. It was a disaster. Several 100% legitimate travel agencies who had been doing business for decades were literally bankrupted by this one incredibly insensitive and moronic decision.

By the way, did you know all new applications for merchant accounts by companies doing any kind of telemarketing whatsoever... are now summarily rejected? Mind you, I'm not saying all new businesses involved in "telephone scams" are being rejected... no... what I am saying is all companies involved in telephone sales... even legitimate telephone sales... are being automatically rejected.

Along with dozens of other what's considered "high-risk" categories.

You know, there's been several robberies of convenience stores in Florida recently by black teenagers. Hmn? I wonder what we should do about this? Hey, I think I've got it...

Let's Simply Refuse To Let

Black People Shop At These

Stores Anymore!

What a great idea! And it doesn't require any mental energy at all. No pesky, time-consuming tasks like evaluating each black person on an individual basis. See, this way, we can just refuse to deal with all of them. This way, we can free up a lot of time and energy to deal with other important aspects of our lives and businesses.

And Jews. I've got to confess, I've met a few of them I didn't like over the years so I'm thinking about talking to the owner of a local marina where I keep one of my boats about excluding Jews. Yeah, yeah... I know a lot of Jews really are OK but I'm a busy guy so I say to hell with it... let's ostracize the whole lot of them.

And all these damn Spanish-speaking types here in Miami and Los Angeles. Let's restrict those suckers too. Sure, I know some of them are hard-working, everyday people. And some of them are pretty good research scientists, doctors, Nobel prize winners and stuff. But damnit, some of them deal drugs so I say... let's reject them all.

Are you starting to see the brilliance of this way of thinking? The sheer genius of it? And most of all, can't you see the efficiency and time-saving aspects of this way of dealing with groups of people?

Hey man, thinking and evaluating people on an individual basis takes way too much mental energy for me to mess with. I'm a busy guy. I've got a business to run and profits to make. And I'm sure you feel the same way, don't you?

What's that? You say what I've just described is offensive to you? You say Americans have made great strides in eliminating this kind of mentality over the last 30-years?

Well, maybe we have. But, this kind of moronic mindset still exists in enough of the U.S. population to make me just a tad ashamed of many of my fellow Americans. And, if you have any doubts about this... just ask any Black, any Jew, any Cuban/American or Mexican/American, any gay American, any... oh hell, you get the idea. The point is...

Prejudice Sucks!

But, my friend, not only does it suck on a personal level... it also sucks on a business level. People who operate telephone scams should not be permitted to have a merchant account (they shouldn't be allowed to do business at all, for that matter)... but... people who use the telephone to generate legitimate sales should no more be rejected on a group basis than should Jews, Blacks, gays, etc.

The same holds true for people who do business via other forms of direct response such as direct mail, TV ads, magazine and newspaper ads, etc. In other words, it is unfair to persecute the innocent along with the guilty just because they use the same "tools".

This problem is so bad, it has reached disastrous proportions. I think it is fair to say my office, because of my newsletter, could be characterized as "Action-Central" as far as info on direct marketing is concerned. And I'm telling you...

The Inability To Get (Or Keep) A

Merchant Account Is The Single-Biggest

Problem Of A Major Portion Of The Entire

U.S. Direct Response Industry!

And there lies an enormous financial opportunity for one, two, or a few of the people reading this newsletter.

Before I go on, however, let me say there are already several people and companies out there who say they can solve this problem. But, mostly, they can't. Perhaps they have helped some businesses but, every single piece of feedback about them I've ever received has been very negative. This is true also of just about every other offer I've seen from anyone who says they can get a person a merchant account.

Look, I personally don't know exactly how to solve this problem... but... I've got some ideas about it. It could happen like this: Let's say one of my readers is somebody who is connected to the higher echelons of the bank industry. I mean really connected. Not just somebody whose brother-in-law is on the loan committee of some local S&L. Needless to say, this good person should also have a huge amount of "entrepreneurial blood" oozing around in his veins. And let's say this reader can somehow arrange a "sit down" with some truly high-ranking international bank executives and some high-ranking owners or executives of the Visa and MasterCard organizations.

OK, knowing he can do that, my first suggestion for this guy is to read everything he can get his hands on concerning the credit card business and merchant accounts. Then, after about a month of intense reading and research, our would-be savior should start taking some airplane trips. To the Cayman Islands... to Zurich, Switzerland... to London, England... and other financial centers. He will seek out and dialogue with intelligent bankers, intelligent investors and intelligent insurance providers like Lloyds of London.

And eventually, our guy (or gal) will go to MasterCard and Visa and say something like:

"Look, you routinely refuse and/or terminate the merchant account status of thousands of companies doing business via direct response. This is somewhat understandable because there is some outright fraud in this area, plus there are chargebacks and other difficulties. However, this policy on your part is destroying many legitimate enterprises and depriving you of billions in profits.

"I've a solution to this problem. I have formed a company called 'Direct Response Merchant Services, Inc.' and I have set up a foolproof way you never, ever again have to take a loss on a credit card sale generated by direct response advertising.

"First, my company, through an arrangement with Lloyds of London (or some other insurance carrier) is prepared to provide you with a surety bond in the amount of $500,000,000 to guarantee all credit card transactions processed through my organization.

"Secondly, to further increase your comfort level, I have arranged for you to meet our major stockholders and Board of Directors who are all substantial citizens with impeccable reputations."

OK, here's how this new company (DRMS) would operate: Suppose some would-be direct response business person has tried and failed to get a merchant account through normal channels and now he comes to you. What you do first is, you have someone truly savvy in direct response investigate his operation. You examine his products, his sales materials, his shipping facilities, and his management. Suppose you find out he is one of two extremes: He is either an outright fraud, or, as is often the case, a do-right businessman who should not have been turned down before.

In the case of the latter, you set him up so he can process his credit card transactions through DRMS at the fair and honest low-rate he should have been given in the first place. You do, of course, add a little percentage for yourself... but... you don't get abusive about it because you are an ethical person.

In the former case (where the merchant account seeker was an outright fraud), you summarily reject him and via your "Scam Alert" newsletter...

You Put Out The Word

On This Slimebag!

You see, if a guy's a scammer, what I want is not only for him to be rejected for a merchant account... I also want him driven out of our industry!

Suppose however, the operation you're checking out falls somewhere in the middle of those two extremes. This will often be the case. You see, all forms of direct response selling generates a higher rate of chargebacks than walk-in retail sales for a variety of reasons. And it's through no fault of the seller. One of those reasons is the customer is not able to physically examine the merchandise before he buys it and thus, he is sometimes disappointed. Another reason, I suspect is, it is easier to ask for a refund (which is not deserved) from a seller you never have to meet on a face-to-face personal basis.

In any case, what you should do with these companies is... simply rate them based on the degree of risk they represent... just like...

A Life Insurance Company Does

After They Have Given You A

Physical By Their M.D.!

And you charge accordingly. If the company is operating honestly but has above-average chargebacks, you insist on a higher percentage for processing their orders. And, you insist they keep a certain amount of fungolas in a reserve account that is debited against chargebacks.

You know, a variation of all this is DRMS wouldn't process transactions at all... but... merely insure them.

You'd think the banks and MasterCard and Visa would have worked all this out on their own, wouldn't you? But really, they can't. First, they don't understand direct response well enough. And secondly, in the case of the banks, they're too busy doing the paperwork necessary to be bailed out by the FDIC because of all those recent mutual fund frauds. Not to mention all the billions they've poured into those rock-solid countries like Argentina and Brazil.

Make no mistake, my friend, I have just described to you a situation that really can make some intelligent entrepreneur a multi-millionaire. I know I don't have all the answers and the sketchy scenario I just described is incomplete. However, it should be enough to point you in the right direction if you've got the right stuff.

Now listen, I am aware there are a few service bureaus which will process credit card transactions for direct marketers. Especially if they themselves (the service bureaus) ship the merchandise. And, for low-grossing online vendors, there's PayPal and www.2checkout.com. But, these organizations can only solve a minute fraction of the problem. What's needed is someone to set about solving this problem in a major way. And I'm telling you... if you are the one who fills this need...

You Can Become Rich

Beyond Your Wildest Dreams!

Guess what? The information you just read  (except for the mutual fund and online tidbits) was written and published by me on June 26, 1991... which is nearly 13-years ago!

And nobody has stepped up to the plate and solved this problem. So, it looks like I'm going to have to do it myself.

I dare say I'm the most "well-connected" guy in all of direct marketing. My newsletter is now read in 90 countries... besides... the U.S. Because of this, I get feedback from all over the world. You know what? Some of you (if you were savvy enough) would pay me more than $10,000 per day just to read my incoming e-mails.

Why?

Simply because my incoming e-mails reveal more little-known (VERY little-known) ways to make and solve direct marketing problems than anyplace else on earth.

Anyway, because of my incoming stream of e-mails, I've been made aware of what I truly believe to be a "goldmine" breakthrough when it comes to credit card processing. I'm NOT going to give you the name of the company nor am I going to give you the name of the man who is the head hauncho of this deal.

I've told a few people about it and, in one case, it majorly "backfired" on me. This one guy was doing about 10,000 orders per day through the Internet for a weight-loss product. He was selling this totally bogus product on a "til forbid" credit card basis. "Til forbid" means you can keep sending the product and "dinging" the customer's credit card month-after-month until he "forbids" you to do it anymore.

You CAN make a lot of money with "til forbid" offers (sometimes called "continuity offers") but, they are fraught with a lot of danger. Especially if someone is selling something phony or, someone who just plain, flat-out does not run a very tight ship.

In the case of the guy selling the diet product (who, incidentally, is about to be indicted), he processed several hundred thousand dollars in orders in about 10-days and, a lot of them went bad.

Which means my "goldmine" credit card guy had to eat an awful amount of money.

Well, if I can help it, that's NOT going to happen again. At least NOT from people to whom I recommend this service. You see, from now on, before I recommend this credit card processing service to anyone, they are first going to have to have...

The Halbert Seal Of Approval!

That means, before you can get through to this "goldmine" credit card outfit, you are first going to have to get past ME!

So, if you're a slimebag running a scam, selling a phony product, or using fraudulent advertising, you ain't gonna pass through the "Halbert Filter".

On the other hand, if you are deserving, I will hook you up with what I believe to be the most dependable merchant account processor on earth.

Are you interested in any of this? (You should be for back-up insurance reasons... even if... you already have a merchant account.) If so, you're going to have to e-mail me at NoSexGary@aol.com. You're gonna have to give me your REAL name, your REAL phone number and a brief description of your business. If I think you're legitimate (and I'll know a lot of you are NOT legitimate just by knowing your name), I'll call you back and ask you very detailed and probing questions about you and your business. If you've got something to hide, don't even waste your time contacting me.

If you pass muster (and, it's my guess, most of you will) I'll hook you up with the "goldmine" credit card guy.

Look, I'm not doing this because it's the passion of my life. I'm doing it because I've been waiting 13-years for someone else to fill this vacuum and nobody has.

Plus, I feel very badly (truly) for legitimate guys who can't get a merchant account because of the laziness and stupidity of American bankers.

And, as you can probably guess, dumbass Bush and his invasion of privacy "Patriot Act" has made things exponentially worse.

By the way, did you know George W. Bush has the lowest I.Q. of any president we've ever had?

Gosh, who woulda guessed?

       

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.   Soon there will be a good reason for you to visit my website every day. Why? Because I'm going to start publishing a daily "Halbertism" which you will find informative, funny, lucrative and sometimes, just plain insane.

         Peace.

 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Chapter 11

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/does_size_matter.htm

Does Size Really Matter?

(Finally, Gary Halbert gives

you the real answer!)

OK, the most asked question about sex (it's asked all over the world) is... does size really matter?

The answer is "yes"... and... "no".

Let me explain: Size does NOT matter until you are about to have sex. Think about it: You're walking down the street, dressed in a suit, carrying a briefcase on your way to a business meeting.

What does it matter if your penis is 4-inches or 4-feet long? It doesn't. Except maybe a 4-foot long penis might be a tad uncomfortable and somewhat of a struggle to keep in your underpants.

But, let's say you and your woman are about to have sex and you've just stripped off your underwear. Does your woman now care about the size of your penis?

Absolutely!

But, more accurately, she cares about the size of your... erection!

And, not for the reason you think. A man doesn't have to have a huge penis to satisfy a woman sexually. But, there is one thing she does know for sure...

All Erections Are NOT

Created Equally!

Remember when you were a kid in school and dreaded the idea you might be called to the head of the class... because... you had a hard-on which was turning the front of your jeans into a tent?

Well, that's what a woman wants to see when you undress to have sex with her. She wants to see you with the longest, fattest, hardest erection you can possibly have.

Why?

It's simple. If you have a "killer" erection when you are about to have sex with a woman, it gives her a sense of pride. It's a boost to her ego. It confirms she is indeed extremely sexually desirable. The fact she has been able to get you so excited that you have an erection like those you had back when you were in school, is an enormous sense of pride to her.

It won't necessarily increase her sexual pleasure... but... it will elevate her self-esteem to no end.

The truth is, you absolutely CAN'T (unless you have surgery) increase the size of your penis.

But, you CAN increase the size of your erection and, it's extremely important you do so.

You will learn how in the next chapter.

 

 
 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Chapter 12 Something Important Even Your Doctor Doesn't Know About!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/chapter12.htm

Something Important Even Your

Doctor Doesn't Know About!

 

Oddly enough, I'm going to start this Chapter by writing a little about the country of Malaysia.

It has been estimated the rain forests of Malaysia contain more than 15,000 different species of plants. By comparison, all of Europe has only 5,000 species of plants and...

Europe Is 20-Times

Larger Than Malaysia!

Many of the plants in Malaysia are used for the production of herbs and nutritional supplements. These are used to treat a wide variety of illnesses and medical conditions. Diabetes. Impotence. HIV. Cancer. High blood pressure. And too many others to mention. Three well-known Malaysian plant species had no known use until recently. Now, these three species are regarded as capable of slowing down or eventually curing the dreaded disease of AIDS.

So, it should come as no surprise that many international bio-tech companies now regard Malaysia as the primary source of medicinal plants.

A bio-tech company in Malaysia has created a very potent herbal formula which can supercharge a man's sex life. The main ingredient in Libidus is a proven aphrodisiac plant called Eurycoma Longifolia. It also contains Eurycoma Longifolia. It also contains Flos Catharmi, Rhizoma Cucurmae, Ginkgo Biloba Extract, Herba Epimedii, Herba Cistanches and Astragalus Membranaceus.

All of which is pure Greek to me.

I wouldn't even be writing about this product expect a friend of mine, Paul Teo, owns the bio-tech company that developed this product and he is a man I believe to be honest. He swears this special formula is 100% herbal and starts working within ten minutes. He says it improves a man's performance, gives him harder and long-lasting erections. He says this formula enhances your sex drive and desire and increases the frequency of your orgasms.

Aside from being a friend of mine, there is one big reason I believe him. His company, Bio-Gulf, also makes another sex-related product called "V-Cream"... for which... he made some incredible claims. Well, I happened to try that product personally... and... it works like crazy! All the claims were TRUE!

Anyway, here is the promotional copy he wrote for Libidus... and... I am reproducing it here because, like I said, I believe he is an honest man...

 

 

Dear Friend,

If You Are: looking for a herbal sexual enhancer to stimulate and rejuvenate your sex life, this is going to be the most important message you will ever read.

Here's Why: Buying a sexual enhancer online can be a confusing task. With more than 1,000 brands to choose from - most of them being made with the same popular ingredients like Horny Goat Weed, Yohimbe, Panax Ginseng, L-Arginine, Peruvian Maca Root, Muira Pauma, Damiana and Ginkgo Biloba - it's difficult to choose one that's right for you.

After all, you have nothing to base your selection on, other than what is written on the websites by the manufacturers and marketers. Which, more often than not, are grossly exaggerated claims.

The biggest mistake a person can make when buying a sexual enhancer is to look at its benefits without considering the safety aspect of the product.

Some Sexual Enhancement Nightmares...

Well, we have a few customers with premature ejaculation problem who, upon consuming some herbal sexual enhancers, not only developed body acne (due to presence of steroids in the herbs) but subsequently... became impotent!

Another customer, who was on a popular penis enlargement formula for a month, managed to obtain a 1/4 inch gain but lost 60% of his erection! (Thankfully, Libidus managed to help him regained his manhood.)

So, how is our product, Libidus, any different from the others? What makes Libidus safer than other herbal sexual enhancers?

Well, for one, Libidus...

Does NOT Contain Yohimbe

Unlike 95% of the sexual enhancers in the market, Libidus does not contain Yohimbe, a proven herbal aphrodisiac that works well but... can cause very unpleasant side effects like palpitation, vomiting, insomnia, body aches and aggressive behavior.

While Yohimbe is not illegal in the US, it is banned in many countries throughout the world. That in itself speaks volume about the safety of the herb, especially when you intend to use it for a long period of time.

Secondly, Libidus is...

An Established Brand In 15 Countries

Before Libidus was marketed online, it is already an established brand in countries like Japan, South Africa, China, Vietnam, Cambodia  and Thailand - with combined sales of more than 3,000,000 capsules.

So What? What's The Big Deal?

The "big deal" is this. Selling in those countries through wholesalers is tough, unlike selling on the net where anyone can claim anything without having to show proof.

For our wholesalers to obtain import license to sell Libidus in their own country, we have to provide them with details of our factory (eg. manufacturing license and GMP certificate) and complete information about Libidus (eg. free sales certificate, lab report, Health Ministry approval certificate, ingredients list, recommended dosage, etc.).

This tedious process, which takes about 3-6 months, ensures that Libidus is produced in a GMP-certified factory and that it is safe for consumption (the compulsory lab tests check on the presence of toxic heavy metals, various bacteria and certain hazardous chemicals).

As you can see, the requirements are very strict. That's why on the average, only 1 out of every 30 applications for import license of herbal products is approved.

The point we're trying to make is that, most of the sexual enhancers sold online will not be able to pass these stringent safety and quality control tests.

And since you will be taking the enhancer orally, shouldn't safety be your first and foremost concern?

Consuming these untested products can cost you more than just your money. It could literally cost you... your life.

Having dealt with the issue of product safety, now let me tell you just how effective Libidus is.

Winner of 'The Most Effective

Herbal Sexual Enhancer' Title!

Between Aug 2 and 24, 2003, Herbs & Health News conducted an independent test to determine the most effective male herbal sexual enhancer on the net. 12 leading brands, including Libidus, Imperial Gold Maca, Vigorex, Herbal V and VigRx were tested on 50 couples (with 4 of the men being impotent) for speed of reaction and duration of effectiveness.

Libidus came out tops in both categories, with an average reaction time of 9.8 minutes and duration of effectiveness of 12 hours and 22 minutes.

Here Are Some Comments Made

By Test Participants:

"After consuming Libidus, I was able to maintain a rock-hard erection even after 2 ejaculations. And we had sex for 1 hour 20 minutes. It was simply incredible!"

"Sex has never felt better! My ejaculation was fuller and more powerful."

"The problem I had was with my erection. It just wouldn't stay hard. After taking Libidus, I managed to sustain a very stout erection for more than 40 minutes! Unbelievable!"

"I am impotent due to diabetes. Nothing that I have tried worked. Because of my condition, I dare not try Viagra. Libidus was my life-saver for it gave me an erection that I had never experienced for 5 years!"

Bottom line is, when it comes to safety and effectiveness, very few brands can match Libidus (regardless of their claims).

Now For Some Truly Great News...

On January 2004, we have completed the development of an enhanced version of Libidus.

Using essentially the same ingredients but with stronger herbal extracts, the effects of this enhanced formula can be felt for up to 4 days!

Nothing... no drugs or herbs of such nature... can beat Libidus when it comes to duration of effectiveness!

A Full One-Year Money Back Guarantee!

We're not going to tell you that Libidus will work for you 100%. Even impotency-treatment drugs like Viagra, Cialis and Levitra don't work for everyone, every time.

But the reports from our distributors around the world show an effective rate of 92%. And that is better than most other products out there.

Try a pack of Libidus (enhanced version), before you spend your money on another brand. Worse comes to worst, you feel nothing. But at least you don't put your health at risk by trying something that has not been tested at the lab.

And if you are not satisfied with the results, simply return it for a full refund. No questions asked.

Regards,

Paul C. Teo, President

Bio-Gulf International Corporation, USA

P.S. I want to give special thanks to my friend Gary Halbert (who is one of my customers) and, for believing in my honesty enough to allow me to tell you about Libidus in this book. I can tell you this about Gary: He is not a man who promotes products he does not believe in.

 Gary's Note: You can find out about Libidus at www.libidus-pill.com.

 

 
 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
 

 

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Free Consulting From Gary Halbert

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/yougottabethere.htm

Dear Friend & Subscriber,
This is an extremely time-sensitive newsletter... so... I'm asking you to please read it right away.
Recently, I wrote a newsletter and it appeared inside an envelope icon titled "The Most Important Thing You Need To Know To Make Website Profits!"
 
In that newsletter, I described how NOTHING can improve your website profits like learning how to WRITE a killer pitch. I also gave details of a seminar I will be giving in Miami teaching you how to do just that. And, of course, I'll be teaching how to write copy for direct mail letters, newspaper advertising, magazines, etc.
I wrote that newsletter in the heat of the moment and I forgot to mention a few things:
First:    This is seminar is going to be so hot, I want all of my readers to be able to attend... so... I've decided each paid attendee can bring two FREE guests at no extra charge.
Secondly: Since this seminar is being hosted by GPPIC, you can pay by credit card. If you want to pay with a credit card, just send an e-mail to Theresa@TheGaryHalbertLetter.com telling her you want to sign up for the seminar. She will then send you an e-mail with some simple instructions for you to follow.
Thirdly:  Everybody who pays to come to this seminar will get a "hot seat" from me... right there at the seminar. In case you are not familiar with my world-famous "hot seats", that's where I have each attendee describe his/her marketing situation (or desires) to me and I give them guidance, direction, answers, whatever they need... on the spot!
Fourth:   It doesn't stop there. For a full year after the seminar, each paid attendee will have free access to me by phone to help you with your marketing problems. However, you need to know this: Whenever you are ready for your free consultation, you should have all your ducks in a row. You should be ready to ask me specific questions. Please do NOT think of me as your new "Phone Buddy" that you are free to call and have a rambling conversation with any time you feel like it.
I'm sorry but I just don't have time for that.
All in all, I think THIS seminar is the bargain of a lifetime. You see, the "full fee" is $2,700 (for you and your two free guests)... or...  only $1,700 (for you and your two free guests) if you purchased my "Motherload Collection". You do remember my "Motherload Collection", don't you?
Let me list some of the highlights of my earlier newsletter about that "Motherload Collection":

 
 

You see, in addition to having written hundreds of newsletters over the years, I have also written hundreds of sales letters. Sales letters for myself and for my clients. Pitches selling everything from high-ticket seminars ($6,950)... to low-end books ($19.95)... and of course, everything in between.

r s r s r s
But, I have to admit, I was surprised at their lack of marketing skills. What good is it to be able to find your way around the web... if... you don't stand a chance of selling anything?
That's when it hit me! These people (and I'm sure many others like them) need my help. And I remember my mama always telling me...
"Teach Them By Example!"
 
But before I get into the "guts" of this letter, I have a little exercise for you to do. Let me ask you a couple questions and be honest when you answer them. Since no one will see your answers, go ahead and put a check mark (P) in each block where the situation applies to you:
o  Question 1: Do you cringe at the mere thought of having to come up with a "killer" headline?
o  Question 2: Do you get writer's block knowing you basically have the first 30 to 60 seconds... the first paragraph or two... to catch your reader's attention?
o  Question 3: Do you suffer from migraine headaches trying to write body copy that whets your potential customer's appetite... forcing him to read from one paragraph to the next to the next?
o  Question 4: Do you come up empty on "bullets"?
o  Question 5: Do you flop around like a fish out of water in your closing?
o  Question 6: Do you need a captivating P.S. to pull the "maybe I'll buy" customers over to the paying side?
o  Question 7: Do you go blank when it comes time to write an order coupon?
If you checked off even one of the above boxes, then you need my...
"Motherload Collection
Of Marketing Masterpieces!"
 
What's amazing about this "Motherload Collection" is the wide variety of subjects... the vast amount of copywriting techniques... the humongous examples of strategies... that, when applied to your advertising (whether online, direct mail letters, newspapers or otherwise) will improve your results...
Dramatically...
And... Instantly!
I've put together a combination of hundreds of sales pieces including sales letters, newspaper ads, and website promotions which you can use as a template to get your own advertising in high gear.
r s r s r s
I guarantee, you will not find a better "swipe file" of such world-class marketing anywhere else on the entire planet. Some will be in letter format, others in newspaper format, and for those of you hot on the 'net, in website format. It's a HUGE 3-ring binder and something this huge and this awesome cannot be delivered to you via the Internet.
What you've got to remember is... no matter what format I used originally, you can take those same concepts, tactics, layout, techniques... and twist and tweak them for your own marketing pitches. Consider them your "roadmap" to riches!
r s r s r s
Here's How To Order!
All you have to do is write your name and address and the words "Motherload" on a piece of paper and mail it to us with your check or money order (sorry, no credit cards for this hot deal). Your check needs to be made payable to "Cherrywood Publishing" in the amount of $297.00. I'm even going to "eat" the cost of shipping this box to you! You can send your order by FedEx, UPS or even "snail mail" to:
Cherrywood Publishing
3101 S.W. 34th Ave. #905-467
Ocala, FL  34474
That's all there is to it. As soon as I receive your order, I will send the 3-ring binder to you immediately by Priority, First-Class Mail.
There's nothing more Incan say about this collection of masterpieces... except...
They Are Priceless!

 

 
I don't know if you picked up on it when you read my earlier newsletter where  I had to admit, I did NOT write the letter for the "Motherload Collection". Not one single word. Who did write it?
Was it someone who paid $27,000 to be by my side for one full month to master this technique? Or was it someone who paid me $15,000 to write a sales pitch for them? Or was it someone who paid me $7,000 to attend one of my prior seminars? Or was it someone who paid me nearly $3,000 to be a Lifetime subscriber?
The answer to all of those questions is "no." It was not anyone who paid me any amount of money.
And get this... it was NOT anyone who even WANTS to be a copywriter!
No, the person who wrote that sales message is none other than my #1 Trusty Assistant, Theresa. How could she write such copy? By being at my side for so many years and by listening and watching me at my seminars.
Can you now see how important it is to be at one of my seminars? To be "by my side" for three solid days? To be listening and watching my every move? There are certain aspects of writing copy (whether for a website, a direct mail letter, a newspaper ad, etc.) which you simply will NOT get by reading about it. You have to be there. You have to experience it firsthand.
Maybe you REALLY want to come to my seminar but you're short of cash because "Uncle Sam is knocking at your door." If that's the case, then just send your $1,700 seminar registration fee now... and... I'll let you purchase my "Motherload Collection" right there at the seminar!
I don't know how I can make this deal any better. You can, if you wish, re-read the details of my seminar inside the envelope icon already posted on my website with the title "The Most Important Thing You Need To Know About Making Website Profits!"
 
Just as a quick refresher, the seminar starts at 10:00 a.m. on Friday, May 14 and runs through Sunday, May 16 at the Marriott Miami Airport on LeJeune Road.
The special bargain rate Theresa worked out with the Marriott is $89 per night (a savings of $150). You can call the Marriott's toll-free number at 1-800-228-9290 or their direct line at 1-305-671-2602. The Marriott said they would hold that special room rate until April 26. After that, the rate goes back up to $139 per night. Be sure to tell them you are attending Gary Halbert's "How To Write A Website Pitch That Will Make You Rich!" Seminar. They have it listed as CODE CHR.
And, the last thing is, I'd like to ask you a favor. If you've decided to attend the seminar, would you please e-mail Theresa at Theresa@TheGaryHalbertLetter.com and let her know. And, would you please include your name and phone number so she can call you if there are any last minute changes you need to know.

  Your prompt reply would be appreciated.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S. I'd like to reprint an e-mail I received recently. I think you'll find it most interesting:
 
 

Subject: Testimonial for Motherload Collection

Date: 4/12/2004 12:41 a.m. EST
From: Hypnosis Secrets
To:NoSexGary

 
Gary,

 
I am absolutely blown away by the content of your "Motherload Collection." Having been one of your subscribers for many years, to finally have my own personal copy of your greatest full-page ads and sales letters is a dream come true. Anyone who doesn't buy this massive collection is foolish, as it is an unbelievable "steal" for the price. Thank you for making this available.

 
Kind regards,

 
Bill O'Connell
Hypnosis Secrets, Inc.
www.HypnosisSecrets.com

 



 
Another testimonial said I should have charged $30,000 rather than the $297.00 price. Some other testimonials were also very flattering.
P.S.#2 If you want to come to the seminar and you want to pay by check, here are the specifics:
a) Make your check payable to "GPPIC".
b) Write it in the amount of $2,700 or $1,700 (depending on whether or not you've purchased the "Motherload Collection").
c) Send your check to: GPPIC, 640 South Miami Avenue, Suite 1, Miami, Florida  33130.
Looking forward to seeing you in May.
Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Julie Paris Speaks Her Mind

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/message_from_julie.htm

Dear Friend,

      I know because of Gary Halbert (AKA Bert Halgary) you have heard a lot about me and my new product called FirePlay.

      What you haven’t been told yet is how it works.  So I’ve asked Gary Halbert to write a piece of copy for me that explains (in a way that almost anybody can understand) just exactly how FirePlay works to get women very sexually excited.  What follows was written by Gary and I think you will find it very interesting.

 Sincerely,

 Julie Paris

 

 

How FirePlay Makes Almost Certain
You Have the Best Sex Possible!

      

      I'm sure you've heard all the stories about the alleged aphrodisiac called the "Spanish Fly."  Early descriptions of this product date back to antiquity.  This drug is mentioned by Hippocrates, Celsus and Pliny.  The Roman empress, Libia (58 B.C. through 29 A.D.) is said to be the person who slipped it into the food of other members of the Imperial family... to stimulate them into committing sexual indiscretions... which could later be used against them.  Libia was originally the wife of Tiberius Claudius Nero.  But he gave her away to Octavianus (later known as Emperor Augustus) as part of a reconciliation agreement.

       Even today, the legend of the Spanish Fly as a powerful aphrodisiac persists.

       Is the Spanish Fly just a myth... or... did it (and does it now) really exist?  Well, thanks to the efforts of Julie Paris, it doesn't much matter ... because... her new product...

 Really Does Work!

       It's safe... and... it actually does make women... instantly horny!

       Julie spent years of research getting the formula of this product exactly right.

      Also, even though Julie is one of the world's leading experts in female biology, she did not create this product by herself. She had the help of a world-famous chemist who has a testing laboratory in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. He is the leading expert in the world on SPF (Suntan Protection Factor) and equally knowledgeable of other facets of human biology.
 

      I'm going to try to tell you how this product works... but remember... I am NOT a scientist. So, if I don't get it exactly right, don't blame Julie or the other chemists involved.

      Anyway, here's how it works as I understand it: If you've ever been in the sun too long (without sun screen protection) you probably got a sunburn. The reason you got that sunburn was because of all those UVA rays from the sun causing something called an "Arachadonic acid cascade". Basically (as I understand it) an "Arachadonic acid cascade" is a chemical chain reaction that causes a harmful sunburn.

      Now, get this: Although they would explain it differently, what Julie and this other world-famous chemist have been able to do create is a product that produces something (at least vaguely similar) to a harmless

      "Arachadonic acid cascade" in the genital area of women who are exposed to this product. This causes a pleasant, very exciting warming sensation which works on women (from the inside out) that...

 

Makes It Almost Impossible




For Them To Think About




Anything Except Sex!




 

      This product really works!  I've talked with women who’ve used it (and used it myself with one special lady) … and… I’ve never seen or heard women react to anything like this! And, because Julie is now selling much more of this product than before, her manufacturing costs are down.

      So, she’s agreed to pass on this savings to her customers.  When you put your name on the waiting list for this product the price was $69.95 + $3 shipping for a 60 day supply.

      Now you can get it for $20 less …and… you still get the free copy of my book called… 

Killer Orgasms:




How To Have The Best Sex Humanly Possible!

      By the way, the book is now available for immediate downloading.  It would have been ready for you earlier ….if.. I wasn’t such a computer idiot.

      Whatever, I’m sorry, but I’m a writer, not a geek.  Anyway, here’s the link you use to get your special discount….and… to download my book if you so desire.

 http://www.shesonfire.com/323.asp

 

         

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

 P.S.  If youve already ordered FirePlay...and...youv'e had a chance to use it, you already know how spectacular it is.

Also, I dare say, if you've received or downloaded my book, I'm sure you've learned some very good info never published before.

Anyway, if that's the case, this is a good chance for you to get another copy of my book (it's a great gift for friends)  ...and... to re-order fireplay at a price it was impossible for us to offer before. And, just because it's not said often enough...

 

Thank You For
Being One of My Readers

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Gloomy Sunday

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/gloomy_sunday.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

      I am a person who is passionate about purity.

      I don't believe in multi-tasking. If you want to sell me something, the best way to LOSE the sale is tell me about the extra features that "something" has.

      I don't want my cell phone to double as a blender. I don't want call waiting, caller ID, voicemail, video games, a walkie talkie function, an electronic phone book, day planner or none of that shit. All I want is...

A Cell Phone That Will Let Me


Make And Receive Phone Calls!

       I NEVER retrieve my voicemail messages. I don't even want any of my phones to have the ability to allow someone to leave a message. I realize this is a valuable function for many people such as doctors and sales people and so forth. But, I personally HATE coming home after a long day's work and having to listen to a lot of messages that I am, for some reason or another, supposed to be "obligated" to deal with.

      Until recently, my son Bond, had three cell phones. No more. He took them to the Mohave Desert and used one of his handguns to "murder" each one of them. He left all three cell phone "carcasses" riddled with bullets dead and useless in the desert. You know what he later told me? He said...

It Was The Most


Liberating Thing
He'd Ever Done!

      I also like purity in people. I, myself, am more or less a "one-trick-pony". I proclaim I am the "World's Best Copywriter". I don't say I am the world's best dancer, the world's champion powerlifter, the fastest runner in the world, a time-management expert and so on. I believe I'm the world's best copywriter (for real) and, that's it. If you want the world's best at something else, you gotta look elsewhere.

      Have you ever heard Enya sing? Her voice is utter magic. With a few very rare exceptions, she does ALL the vocals, ALL the instrumentation, etc. Sometimes, it takes her more than 2-years to produce a single CD but, the results are heavenly. Her music has been scientifically proven to lower blood pressure, lower the heart rate and, in general, have a remarkable relaxing effect on people who are (and that includes everyone I know) tense.

      I saw a music awards show not too long ago. Lip-syncing singers, carefully choreographed stage maneuvers, and every performer's performance meticulously calculated to snag every micro-second of the audience's attention.

      And then comes Enya. Dressed elegantly simple. She sits at the piano with no fanfare and begins playing and singing with her magical voice. The audience was hushed and spellbound. Her presence and performance would be analogous to the tackiness of Madonna standing next to the elegance and real class of Princess Di or Jackie Kennedy.

      Here in Florida we have more boats than anywhere else in the world. Almost all of them are a "compromise". Except one. It's the "Hell's Bay" line of flats boats made by former Florida Keys fishing guide, Hal Chittum. It only weighs 350 pounds, has no extras whatsoever, goes 35 MPH with a 2-stroke 25 HP outboard, and it goes and floats in...

Only 2-1/2 Inches Of Water!

      It's perfect. Perfect for flats fishing and NOTHING else.

      Purity.

      There are some products (very few) that have retained their purity and, believe it or not, the famous "Slinky" is one of those products. An American lady has been running the company for about three decades, refuses to use anything but American steel, keeps the price as low as humanly possible... and... they still sell today by the thousands.

      Purity.

       Recently, I saw a movie which was perhaps the best I've ever seen in my life. Despite its title, "Gloomy Sunday", in a curious way it is the most inspiring movie I've ever seen. The female lead, Erika Marozsan, is the most magnetic and bewitching woman I've ever seen in a movie.

      This movie should have easily won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film... but... it wasn't even nominated. If God was to allow you to only see one movie for all the rest of your life...

It Should Be This One!

      What follows is a reprint of a review of this film from the Chicago Tribune:




  This sumptuous film is a dramatic, Holocaust-themed story woven around a fascinating, true story of a famous Hungarian musical composition, Gloomy Sunday. Not only do the lush visuals, shot on location in Hungary, whisk one back in time and place, but the film itself is a throwback to the sort of powerful, straightforward romantic dramas set in turbulent times -- classics such as Casablanca and the recent German hit Nowhere in Africa -- that are sadly lacking from Hollywood these days.

 The elegant structure of Gloomy Sunday opens onto the present day, where a successful German and his family arrive at a famous Budapest restaurant to celebrate the mans 80th birthday. After requesting that the violinist play the mournful tune, the man is stricken by a heart attack. The film then flashes back to the 1930s, when the restaurant, Szabo, was run by affable Laszlo Szabo (a terrific performance by Joachim Krol), a Hungarian Jew.  

 It isnt hard to see what the gorgeous, fiery Ilona (Erika Marozsan) sees in her boss. Laszlo

	

isn't dashing or particularly magnetic, but he's a happy, successful man who's self-assured  enough to give Ilona her freedom to chose lovers, even if it leaves him the odd man out.

  One of those lovers is Andras (Stefano Dionisi), the striking pianist hired to serenade diners at Szabo. The three principals develop a believable and likable love triangle that echoes Jules and Jim in its warmth and civility, as Laszlo and Andras bond over a shared love for Ilona. Laszlo and Ilona help Andras achieve recognition for his original song, Gloomy Sunday, which he penned for Ilona.

In the film, the song takes on mythic elements, as it did shortly after

	

it was composed in 1935 by two Hungarians, Rezso Seress and Laszlo Javor.  The melancholy, popular tune was blamed for a rash of suicides in Hungary in 1936. (Several American musicians and singers recorded the Hungarian Hymnsong, most famously Billie Holiday.)

  The string of suicides is recounted in the film, but what could have been overly melodramatic is handled with grace and skill by the director and the actors. The sorrowful elements of the music foreshadow the tragedy to come as the Nazis march across Europe and into Hungary.

  The films fourth pivotal character is Mr. Wieck, the young German who first shows up at Szabo as a businessman smitten by Ilona and later returns as an SS officer. Laszlo and Ilona reluctantly, but hopefully, show him kindness. There is a searing moment in the film when Laszlo, the accommodating restaurateur, tells a lacerating joke to appease the Nazi. The ingenious, satisfying and perfectly executed twist that concludes Gloomy Sunday is a memorable moment in a remarkable movie.

      So, what's the point of me writing about it in this newsletter? "Gloomy Sunday" is the purest movie I've ever seen. I left feeling much less mature than I did when I went in. It does indeed raise questions not easily answered. About the choices we make in life, loyalty and morality.

      It is like no other movie I've ever seen.

      So what? Well, here's "so what": People have been after me to write a book on human sexuality for years. But something kept holding me back. In my mind, what I had to say was not yet complete. Then I saw "Gloomy Sunday"... and... I walked out 100% inspired to write that book.

      The inspiration came from the purity of Erika Marozsan's portrayal of the gorgeous, fiery Ilona (the female lead) and her open, honest and refreshingly candid attitude towards sex.

      I personally met (very briefly) both Erika and Richard Schoeps (one of the film's producers), and had the opportunity to tell them how much the film had meant to me. I also told them their film (because of what I was about to write in this newsletter) would soon be famous in 90 countries.

Purity Inspires Me!

      When I see an athlete who concentrates on nothing but golf (like Tiger Woods) I am inspired.

      If there is a message here, it is this: Find your true passion in life and follow it. Mine was to become the best copywriter in the world and, I believe, I have achieved that goal.

      And look for inspiration from other "pure" people who do not allow their purity to be compromised by "political correctness", the flavor of the week... or... what's considered "cool" at the moment. Those things will not endure.

      Hell's Bay flats boats, the Slinky, Tiger Woods, Enya and the movie "Gloomy Sunday" will be with us forever. And for God's sake...

Go See The Movie!

      And tell 'em Gary Halbert sentja.

  

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

P.S.  Get ready for a "killer" Gary Halbert seminar around the last week in April or the first week in May. Make no plans. You absolutely won't want to miss this one.

Especially, if you want to learn how to... write a website...

  That Will Make You Rich!

  Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2004 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Gary Makes It All Better!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/shake_your_tail_feathers.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

      I need your help. I need a favor from you.

       And to get it, I'm going to offer you a bribe. An "ethical bribe" that will repay you (financially) 1,000 times over for the small thing I am going to ask you to do.

       I hope you know me well enough by now to know I do not exaggerate when I make such statements.

       I'll describe this "bribe" for you very shortly. But first, I'm going to tell you a charming little story.

       As you may have guessed, my best friend here in Miami is Julie Brumlik (aka Julie "Paris"). Well, as I mentioned last week, Julie has Stage III cancer and is getting radiation treatments. What I didn't tell you is how much they are charging her for these treatments. They're a hefty...

 $7,000.00 Per Week!

       Plus, they are abusive beyond belief about getting paid. And, you almost have to hold a gun to their heads to get them to explain the charges. It's no wonder. Recently, Julie was in a meeting with the hospital's hostile accounting people. She was asking them to explain their itemized bill. She was especially curious about one item they were billing her over and over... at... a cost of $187. She finally got an answer out of them. It turns out, that's...

How Much They Charge Her




Every Time They Just




Checked Her Weight!

       I swear to God. They tell her to step up on the scale, make a notation of how much she weighs... and then... BOOM! another $187 will appear on her next billing. Can you imagine being charged "only" $187 for such an extremely complex procedure?

      The rest of the bill is just as odious. Plus, they say things to her like, "We want to get paid as soon as possible because you might die and leave us with an unpaid bill." Or they've been known to say, "Nobody else questions our bills. Who do you think you are?"

       There's a lot more to it than that. Ironically, it was Julie's grandfather and a few other of her relatives who founded and funded the hospital with the proviso "Nobody will be refused treatment because of lack of money."

       My, my. The medical profession sure has changed here in the U.S., hasn't it?

       Anyway, Julie is one of my favorite people and I wanted to help her with this problem. So, I summoned up my "evil twin" and, with his help, I wrote one of my semi-famous "social engineering" letters and had Julie send them to all of the concerned villains by registered mail... and... so far... they haven't said another word to her about their ridiculous medical bill. Here's the letter I wrote for Julie:

 

 

Dear Julie,

    After being informed of your experiences with Mount Sinai Hospital, it is my opinion you have an almost can't-lose-lawsuit against them. The conduct, behavior and comments of the people who work in the accounting department, especially Patricia Murphy, are without question legally actionable. To tell a cancer patient she is lying to them about her financial situation and belongs at a hospital for the indigent, and threaten to withhold treatment unless immediate compensation is made, can be considered according to the 17 cases I have researched virtual extortion. I will be selecting an attorney for you within the next week. Right now, I'm leaning toward the office of Holland & Knight or Susan Noe. Also I believe the verbal and mental abuse you have received at the hands of Mt. Sinai's accounting department is pandemic in our society and would make an excellent network documentary. As you know, I have connections throughout the show business world and I think your story will be an easy one to sell. Just imagine, here you are, the granddaughter of one of the principle founders of Mount Sinai and you are being charged in excess of $360 a week just to have yourself weighed and treated like a subversive just for asking an explanation of your charges. By the way, I'm going to need for whatever attorney I use a complete itemization of your bill with an exact description of the reason for each charge. There are undoubtedly other dramatic overcharges that will make what we call  "pivotal drama points" in a TV docudrama. I know you believe Dr. Toonkel who plans and performs many of your actual radiation procedures is an excellent doctor and a nice person, trying to do the best he can for his patients. But the fact is he has chosen to align himself and work with an unconscionable group of people. When you asked Patricia Murphy why she was so adamant about having the radiation bill prepaid and she replied "because most stage three cancer patients die (and I want to collect from you before that happens)" she pretty much sealed the financial fate of her and Mount Sinai Hospital's Salick Comprehensive Cancer Center.

    I cannot wait for whomever attorney we wish to use to depose this person. A real bonus in this situation is that she made most of her comments in the presence of other people who will also be deposed. This is going to make it pretty much impossible for her to deny her statements, which, by the way, can be truthfully construed as deliberate communications that will dramatically increase the stress level of every patient to whom she speaks in this manner, which in turn diminishes their immune system, which in turn leads her comment about "you may not live long enough to pay" to become a self-fulfilling prophesy. Rest assured, these people have just bought themselves a lawsuit, more publicity than they would have ever dreamed possible, and ... a monster dent in the finances of the Comprehensive Cancer Center. Julie please don’t feel guilty about all this. When Harvey Greenspan, Jack Cantor, Baron de Hirsch Meyer, Cal Covin, and Lila Heatter nurtured this hospital they did so for humanitarian reasons and in fact I happen to know the hospital didn't even charge indigent patients for years. To think now that the accounting department is headed up by such a person as Patricia Murphy would cause all of them to turn over in their graves. I am pushing forward in this matter as fast as humanly possible. Should you have any future conversations with Mrs. Murphy or any of her minions, tell them in a very short time you will give them a card with the contact details of your personal attorney with whom they can discuss these matters.

                                                                   Your friend,

                                                                  Dr. Finegold

cc:
Steven D. Sonenreich
Hava Rwylyn
Dan Rwylyn
David Schmitt
Phil Frost
Gregory Wolfe
Paul Gluck
Marge and Irv Korac
Rosalie and Ted Pincus
Nancy and Joe Kanter
John Dorschner, Miami Herald
"Help Me, Howard" Finkelstein
Marilyn Mitzel
Diane Sawyer
Don Hewitt
Rick Bragg
Lexie and Claudia Potamkin
Donna Shalala
Starr Porter
Olga Edridge, BBC
Jim DeFede
Lettie Bien

       Perhaps you can now understand why the ability to write a good piece of copy has more ramifications than just generating sales. I hope you learn to write letters like this to help solve the problems in your life.

       Anyway, I've helped get the accounting "hounds-of-hell" off her back. (At least temporarily.) Now, what I want to do is improve her financial situation overall. I want to do this by helping her sell her new product called "Fire Play."

       Anyone who orders this product also gets a FREE copy of a brand new book written by me. Here's the cover the book:

 

Killer Orgasms!

How

To

Have

The

Best

Sex

Humanly

Possible!

 

 

 

 

 

 

Written and Published by:




Gary C. Halbert




3101 S.W. 34th Ave. #905-467 t Ocala, FL  34474




Phone:  (305) 534-7577




E-mail: GaryCHalbert@aol.com




 

 ©  Gary C. Halbert 

 

      Here's the deal: After ordering "Fire Play" and using it for a 60-day trial period, you can return it (but believe me, you won't want to) for a complete and immediate refund... and... you still get to keep the free copy of my book.

       OK, so I wrote a "killer" website about her product that started off like this:

 Miami Beach Lesbian Creates New




Product That Makes All Women




Almost Instantly Crazy To Have Sex




With Males... Or... Females!

       The website went on to explain how you got a copy of my free book if you ordered Julie's product... and... how the product comes with a 100% iron-clad money-back guarantee... and... how you got to keep my book... even if... you returned Julie's product for a refund.

       So far, so good.

       Then, I explained how YOU could make money with this website. Do you remember what I said? For those of you who suffer from CRS (Can't Remember Shit), here's what I wrote:

 

How The Hell Can This




Website Make YOU Some Money?

  It's very simple: You must have at least a couple of friends, don't you? And a few associates? All you have to do is encourage those people to go to Julie's website and, if they order her product, she will send YOU $20 for every customer you refer. By the way, this amazing product sells for only $69.95 plus $3 shipping and handling.

    Now consider this: If you have a LOT of friends or maybe even a mailing list of prospects or customers (for whatever it is you are selling), you could communicate with ALL these people and receive lots of $20's from Julie.

    How will Julie know if these orders are from your friends or associates? It's easy. Contact Julie and she'll give you a 9-digit "code". Those 9-digits will belong to you and you alone. Then, all you have to do is give your friends, associates or mailing list, Julie's website address followed by YOUR 9-digit code. It'll be something like this:

 www.ShesOnFire.com/123456789

    Picture this: There you are munching on your Twinkies, sipping beer, kicking back in your Lazyboy and watching the 112th version of some "Survivor" show. Your buddy calls you up and you guys get to talking about things like bowling, bass fishing, strippers, where to get bib overalls at a discount, and other stuff like that. Then you say to your buddy, "Hey Joe, I got a website you should check out. Get a pencil and jot this down somewhere you won't lose it. The website address is www.ShesOnFire.com forward slash [and now give him YOUR secret 9-digit code]. Joe, I promise you, I'll be your best friend for the rest of your life after you visit this website."

Your friend goes to the website, becomes crazed to get the free book and the product, gives Julie an order, and she sends you 20 buckaroos. And just think, you haven't even had to break a sweat or get up off your lazy ass... and... that $20 referral fee will buy you a couple more six packs. (I think what you've just read is Gary Halbert's idea of "affiliate marketing".)

    Not that it matters (actually, it DOES matter) but, Julie's product honest-to-God, for real really does work. And the free book mentioned in the website honest-to-God, for real does deliver 100% on every secret. There is no hype here. It's all true.

Anyway, if you are interested in this, e-mail Julie at Julie@ShesOnFire.com and tell her to whom and where you want your checks sent. As soon as you do that, she will instantly e-mail you back and give you your own 9-digit secret code number.

        Well folks, I know it's hard to believe... but... I screwed up. In fact, I screwed up twice. When I wrote that website, I was still doing last minute "tweaking" of the book and, I had a printer who promised to have it back to me in two days. What was I thinking? I forgot...

 This Is Miami!

       People here don't ever do ANYTHING work-related on time. But, after using my "gun-to-the-head" tactics, I now have the book (stacks of them) right here in my hand. Perhaps more importantly, I have it on a computer right here in Miami (the computer belongs to someone much more reliable than me)... all ready...

To Be Downloaded




Immediately If You




So Choose!

       So, going back to the beginning of this letter, what's the favor I want from you? I want you to order "Fire Play" right away... but... I do NOT want you to order it from the website. Instead, I need you to... 

Order It By Phone!

       Who will be answering those phones? Two friends of mine named Casey and Jenelle... and... ME!

       Why will I be answering the phones? I'm not going to tell you. At least not until next month. And I promise, you will be ASTONISHED at why I have decided to do this.

       But wait! What about that "bribe" I mentioned earlier? What is it?

       Actually, it's only five sheets of paper... but... those five sheets of paper will explain how anyone (even John Reese) can INSTANTLY double the profits of almost any website!

       If you want this deal, you better shake your tail feathers... because... it's only good for the next 11-days. Don't be a dummy.

Pick Up That




Phone... Right Now!

    

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

  P.S.  The phone number to call is...

 1-305-372-5040

We'll be answering the phone lines for the next 11-days from 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, Monday through Saturday. Even God himself took a day of rest (Sunday). We have three phones on roll over lines and if you get a busy signal (when we're talking on all three phone lines at once) you'll get a voice mail and have the pleasure of listening to a short message delivered in my very own sweet voice.

P.S.#2  Remember how I said I screwed up twice? Well, the second screw-up was the nutso way I had planned to set up Gary Halbert's version of an "affiliate" program.

Yes, we're still going to have an affiliate program (just not the crazy way I had tried to set it up)... and... it will be explained to anyone who CALLS to order "Fire Play" within the next 11-days.

By the way, it's probably too late for you to sign up for John Reese's seminar... but... if I were you, I'd try to get in anyway. You never know. Sometimes there are cancellations at the last minute. (See details in the last issue of my newsletter posted on this website. It has the envelope icon titled "The Easiest Way In The World To Make Money!")

 

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Easiest Way To Make Money In The World

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/ac_easyway.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek
Tuesday, 6:23 a.m.

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

This issue is going to teach you something valuable.

Really valuable.

   It's something I, myself have had to remember and relearn over and over. So I guess it's fair to say I'm writing this issue for me as well as for my readers. It's a lesson none of us can afford to forget. In simple terms, you have to (in fact, you MUST!)...

Learn To Use Your




Emotions As Fuel!

   I've been going through what I consider a bad time lately. Financially, physically, emotionally... you name it... I've been distressing over it. Financially? I've taken about a $1,600,000 bath over the last year. That sorta sucks, doesn't it?

   Emotionally: My #1 Assistant, Theresa, had been taking care of her dying father 24/7 for seven full months. I'm pretty much 100% dysfunctional (except for writing and speaking). So, having the only functional part of my life unavailable to me, I tried to keep my life going with coat hangers, clothes pins, paper clips and duct tape. It didn't work too well.

   And physically, I let myself get out of shape because I was too busy feeling sorry for myself and sulking.

   But you know what I forgot? I forgot...

 "Action Is The Antidote To Despair"

   And, do you know the most useful thing you can do for yourself when you're feeling down? It's to do something... for somebody else! The truth is, the "challenges" in my life are more like being stuck in traffic... rather than the "real" challenges other people face. "Real" challenges like how to keep from dying of cancer, going blind, or trying to recover from a physical attack which has left you without an arm or a leg. Or worse.

   Seems like the start of a gloomy issue? No way, José! This one's gonna leave you smiling, jumping for joy, and happy as Bill Clinton in a room full of interns.

   See, I know something about my readers. Most of them are pretty much brain-dead. Perhaps a more charitable term would be "sluggish-minded". They want to have money... but... they don't want to work for it. They want happiness... but... they have no interest whatsoever in doing the things necessary to get it for them.

   You want proof my readers are mostly beyond all hope? Then think about this: These people are so senseless...

 They Look To ME For Answers!

   Lunatics. That's all I can say. You're all lunatics. Looking for answers from a man who can't work his own remote for his TV, or retrieve his own phone messages (I don't even try any more), or buy and keep groceries in his 'fridge. But...

 I've Got An Idea!

   What if I could figure a way YOU could make some serious fungolas... without... having to think? Without having to work? Without having to put up any money? Without having to take risks?

   Actually, there is some "work" involved. You will have to deposit a bunch of checks you get in the mail. I know it's a lot to ask... but... maybe you could get your spouse or one of your trusted friends to do it for you. That way, depositing those damn checks won't hardly even be a "bump-in-the-road". You just hand them off to whomever is going to make your deposit for you... and then... you get your ass in that Lazyboy, stuff some more Twinkies in that hole in your face, and keep sipping on those "cold ones" you keep in the cooler beside your chair while watching the latest "Survivor" show or using your TiVo to rerun the Superbowl halftime show. (You know, so you can try to "freeze" that micro-second flash of Janet Jackson's expressed breast so you can keep being properly enraged by this serious threat to our nation's security.) You know why I know you like my proposed scenario? Because my readers are just like ME!

   Hell, I don't want to think or work or invest money or take risks either. I'm just like you. Just gimme the money and get out of my face. And you know what else? I really have figured out...

Exactly How To Make




This Scenario Come True!

 

  You're gonna love this newsletter, Buckwheat. You ain't never done read nuthin' as slick as this!

   But first, a side trip: I make a big deal out of being the world's best copywriter. I think it must be true... because... it says so right in my newsletter. But, all joking aside, here's what I really do have over other copywriters: I don't concentrate on the writing much at all. Almost anybody can write real good (I know, Miss Books, that's not the proper way to say it) if they will dedicate just a few months to learn how to do it. But, that's not what you really need to know. What you really need to know...

Are The Secrets That




Make People Buy!

   A simple example: Send a printed personalized sales letter to 1,000 people and you will get more orders than if you send a printed sales letter that starts "Dear Friend" or "Dear Subscriber" or "Dear Occupant" or "Dear Resident" or "Dear Fellow Boat Lover" or what have you. It used to be, a personalized sales letter would outpull a "generic" letter by (on average) 300%.

   Now, you do understand what a personalized computer generated letter is, don't you? What it is, is (Bill Clinton lives)...

 A Fake Typed Letter!

   Remember all those times I told you I was in the family crest business? And how I would type one letter to the "Allard" family and then have a few thousand of those "personalized" letters printed and mail them to all the Allard families in the U.S.? Well, you know what that offset printed letter was? It was...

 A Fake Computer Letter!

   So, what I was doing was, sending out a fake computer letter... which is... a fake typed letter... which fetched 300% more orders than a "generic" printed sales letter... and... I was doing it at perhaps 1,400 times cheaper than could be done otherwise.

   Personalized letters today do NOT automatically increase sales by 300%. That's simply due to the fact there have been too many of them mailed. But, my friend John Carlton has tested personalized vs. non-personalized... and... personalized still increases response. It increases the response rate by an average of 30%.

   Do you realize an increase of sales by 30% probably produces a 200% increase in profitability? That's because the first big chunk of money generated by your sales goes to pay for your overhead, fulfillment, etc.

   Let's talk about another sales secret. As a general rule, if you tell your prospects you will not cash his check or process his credit card for 30-days, you will triple your orders... but... double your refund rate. Let's do a little math and see how that works out.

   Let's say you are selling a book for $100. And it costs you $1 to mail each letter. Also, it costs you $10 to fulfill every order. And in this example, let's say you are getting a 2% response with a 10% refund rate.

   To mail 1,000 letters would cost you $1,000. A 2% response rate would equal 20 orders. So you'll gross $2,000 (20 x $100). Take those 20 orders and multiply it by the $10 for fulfillment, and you have to fork over another $200. But don't forget those refunds. A 10% refund rate would be 2 refunds at $100 each which causes you to give back $200.

   That means you net $600. (Do the math yourself so you'll completely understand this.)

    But, what if you use the "I won't cash your check or process your credit card for 30-days" idea? Let's see how the math works on that scenario.

   Okay, we mail our 1,000 letters and it still costs us the same $1,000. But, as I said earlier, using this technique usually triples the response rate. That means we now get 60 orders (instead of 20). And that means, you'll gross $6,000 (60 x $100). Now take those 60 orders and multiply it by the $10 for fulfillment, and you have to shell out another $600. But don't forget those refunds. Remember, using this technique usually doubles the number of refunds. We now have a 20% refund rate from 60 orders (12 refunds). Multiply 12 refunds times $100 each and that means you have to give back $1,200.

   That means you net $3,200. (Again, do the math yourself so you'll completely understand this.)

   So, here's the question: Would you rather conduct your business in an "ordinary" way and have a profit of $600... or... use the "30-day-hold" technique and have a profit of $3,200?

   How many of these "sales secrets" do you think I know? The truth is, I know more of them than you would ever believe. Other copywriters pretty much rely on their communication skills alone. What I rely on is my communication skills...

To Communicate Things



I Know Will Increase Sales!
 
    Now, I'm going to tell you a story and show you a piece of writing which should lay to rest forever the slightest suspicion there's anyone else on this entire planet who can write copy as well as I can. And, after I do that, I'm going to show you...
 

How You Can Make A LOT Of Money




By Simply Receiving Checks In The Mail




And Depositing Them Into YOUR Bank Account!

   Remember I told you the best thing you can do for yourself when you're feeling down is to do something nice for someone else? Well, a short time ago I had a small seminar on how to increase website profits. There was a woman here in Miami who wanted to come but told me she didn't have enough money to pay the attendance fee. I responded, "No problem, you can pay for it in three installments." But soon after that she called me and this time had to inform me she had since been diagnosed with cancer (there sure is a lot of that going around these days, isn't there?) and she couldn't afford to pay the attendance fee... even if... she was allowed to pay for it in three installments. My heart reached out to her and I replied, "Well then, I guess you're going to have to come as my guest." And, she did.

   She has turned out to be one of the best friends I now have. She just had a hysterectomy with her uterus and ovaries removed... but... they tell her she still has Stage III cancer. That means, statistically, she has a 20% chance of surviving the next five years. But statistics are often bullshit.

   Brian Keith Voiles had a grapefruit-sized tumor on his brain about 14 years ago. All the doctors told him it was incurable and he should begin making preparations for his demise which was going to occur in the very near future. I remember thinking there was no doctor in the world who had the right to make such a statement to one of his patients. Only God determines when people are going to die. Often, when a doctor makes a statement like that, it can become a self-fulfilling prophecy.

   I told my readers I was betting Brian was going to live a LOT longer than the few months the doctors predicted. And you know what? His grapefruit-sized tumor has since completely vanished... and... a short time ago he flew to Phoenix, Arizona. He flew to a seminar I was speaking at... just because... he wanted to shake my hand and thank me for the encouraging words I had written so many, many years ago.

 These Are The Kinds



Of Moments That Make


My Life Worthwhile!

   Anyway, back to Julie. She's one of the most delightful, upbeat, intelligent people I've ever met, and has a ribald sense of humor. Julie knows more about the chemistry of cosmetics and how to use that chemistry to enhance the lives of millions of people than anyone else that walks the face of the earth.

   And this is where it gets really interesting. You see, Julie has one product she has never put on the market (for reasons you will soon learn). This is as exciting a product as I have ever come across. Because I believe in this product so much (and I wanted to help Julie), I offered to write a website for her, which I have completed. I haven't charged her a cent for this work... and... I don't intend to. I think it's going to make her a TON of money and, believe it or not, I think it could make some money for you.

   Plus, I also think after you read this website, you will realize... without any question whatsoever... that when it comes to writing website copy (or any other kind of copy) I am truly the "800 pound guerrilla" who can walk through the valley with no fear of competition whatsoever.

   Even though the website copy is finished, we are still batting back and forth ideas for the name of the website. So, just in case it isn't an active website by the time you read this newsletter, I'm going to have Theresa type the website copy right here in this newsletter for your consideration.

  

Shouldn't this be against the law?

Miami Beach Lesbian Creates New Product that Makes All Women
Almost Instantly Crazy to Have Sex
with Males... or... Females!

Dear Friend,

      If you would like to make love with one (or more) women who are almost crazy to have sex with you, this will be the most exciting message you will ever read.

      Here is why.

      Julie Paris (no relation to that other young woman named Paris) is a lesbian who lives in Miami Beach, Florida. Actually, she is bi-sexual... but... she hardly ever "wastes her time" with men these days. That's because (according to her) most men just don't have a clue about how to satisfy a woman in bed.

      For years, Julie has studied chemistry and its biological effect on women. She is responsible for creating many of the top cosmetic products in the entire world. But now, she has created a product called "Fire Play" that makes almost all women...

Instantly Horny!

       Actually, Julie created this product more than 1-1/2 years ago.  But she's never put it on the market before now. She felt if she had sold it before now, the result would be millions of women almost crazy to have hot sex... but... these women would be with men who did not know how to satisfy them. Recently though, something happened which changed her mind.

       Julie read the manuscript of a new book written by a man who knows so many sex secrets that... according to her... it's almost like he is a lesbian trapped in a man's body. She thinks every man in the world should read this book and, here is how you can get a copy of it...

100% Free!

       But, here's a warning: Before you request your free copy of the book, you better know some of the secrets revealed in it. You see, Julie (and the author of the book) don't want to embarrass anyone... or... make them feel uncomfortable in any way. So, if your religious beliefs or your conservative upbringing or, if you have "personal reasons" against having great sex... you probably should NOT read this book.

      To help you decide if this book is for you or not, here are some of the secrets revealed in it:

The real reason why Prozac and Zoloft are so popular in this country! (Almost no one... not  even doctors... understands the startling sexual  implications.)

The single biggest sexual complaint women have about men!

The single biggest sexual complaint men have about women!

A dead "giveaway" which proves if a woman is faking her orgasms!

A brand new discovery (just approved by the FDA in February) which any man can use to instantly (and safely) boost his testosterone level! (Note: This will not only improve his sex life... but also... his overall health.)

A secret almost nobody (except a few, elite, very wealthy people) know about... which can lead to... a male having multiple orgasms)

A special place (and a special way) to touch a woman to guarantee mind-altering sex! (This technique is so simple... and... so little-known... even 75% of all women don't know about it.)

The two almost unknown secrets (one mental, one physical) men need to know to have rock-hard erections... at any age! (These are crucial secrets to improving a man's sex life forever.)

A scientifically-proven "aphrodisiac" which gently sends a woman's sexual desires into white-hot overdrive!

What lesbians know about oral sex which men don't... and... why more men today are losing their women to other women!

The single most important thing a woman can do to make herself more attractive to the opposite sex!

The single most important thing a man can do to make himself more attractive to the opposite sex!

Three sure-fire ways to tell if your spouse or "significant other" has had sex with someone else in the last 24-hours!

Three sure-fire ways to tell if your spouse or "significant other" has had sex with someone else in the last 24-hours!

How any man can make all of his erections last longer! (This is one of the most jealously guarded discoveries of sex researchers who had been given almost unlimited research funding by their wealthy, pleasure-seeking patrons.)

Almost foolproof contraception: It's over 99% effective but... so new... most people have never even heard about it!

A male "pleasure trigger" accidentally discovered by medical doctors which... curbs premature ejaculation... and... increases the frequency and quality of male orgasms!

The number one rule which absolutely... must be observed... for women to have a truly spectacular orgasm!

An amazing secret just recently discovered which every man should know about how to... instantly... put his woman "in the mood"! (This works faster than anything else a man could ever do... and... women desperately want their man to learn this secret.)

A sex act which is impossible for most men (unless they know this one simple trick) which women rave about... and... often say "is more enjoyable than orgasms!"

A little known foreplay secret (only recently revealed by a world famous female sex therapist) that gives a man a foolproof method which makes certain his woman will have an explosive orgasm... every time they make love!

A perfectly normal (and healthy) sex act between a man and woman... once forbidden... by American psychiatrists... but... which they now admit... will dramatically increase the amount of great sex in a relationship!

      Let's take a short "breather." We'll get back to more of what this remarkable book will teach you in just a moment. But first, let's talk about why these secret sex techniques are so important.

      Right now, there are approximately 16,222,181 people in the world with full blown AIDS. Another 56,122,303 are HIV Positive. On a worldwide basis, most of these people did not become HIV Positive because they were drug addicts sharing needles... or... because they received it in a blood transfusion... or... because they were having gay sex. Believe it or not, 81% of worldwide cases of HIV and AIDS are caused by the simple act of a straight man having sex with a straight woman. That's why, if you are in a monogamous relationship or if you are married, it is more important than ever not to go outside your relationship for sex.

      Can you guess the biggest reason people cheat on their partners or commit adultery? It's very simple...

 

It's Because They Are
Bored With The Sex Life
They Have At Home!

       But, after you finish reading this free book, there is no reason for you to ever be bored with your sex life again! Just to make sure you understand how true this statement is, following are a few more of the scorching secrets you will learn when you read this book:

An exclusive "pleasure map" with a "fingertip" guide to the 16 most sizzling "hot spots" on a woman's body... including... at least FOUR she probably hasn't discovered herself!

A secret "pleasure spot" on a man's body (it's like a male G-spot) which is so hidden away by nature... not one man in a thousand knows about it... and yet... it can produce awesome, shuddering waves of pleasure!

The thrilling "18-Hour-Plan" (developed by sex experts) which... no matter how fatigued you've been... or... how long you both have been in a rut... will reignite the passion between the two of you!

The six "tricks" which are a man's surest path to quickly increase his woman's "clitoral arousal" which is... the most certain way for a man to bring his partner's "foreplay clock" into sync with his!

The details about how sex researchers destroyed a dangerous sexual myth... and... why a woman does NOT need longer foreplay... if... the man who is her lover knows what he is doing!

What both men AND women need to know about PMS... and... how this knowledge will solve almost all problems caused by PMS!

Why "pick-up lines" almost never work... and... the ONE "almost magic" way to approach a woman which works nearly every time!

Why most couples miss out on the searing, hottest peak of their "love clock" during the day... and... why they never even realize it!

How to use the amazing "Bio Cure" created by noted sex researchers... which... is especially critical for busy parents!

Four incredibly easy ways a man can make sure he NEVER again has to worry about the erection problems 52% of all men (even those under 30 years old) report as their number one source of embarrassment!

Flirting secrets used by all women that 95% of men don't even recognize... and... how a man's life instantly gets ten times more exciting... when he does learn to recognize and understand these little-known secrets!

Casanova's Secret: He was the most famous lover in history and scientists have now discovered he actually did have a secret aphrodisiac (that can be made from natural foods)... which... has been proven to stimulate the "sex chemicals" in a woman's brain!

The one best way to win the true undying love of a member of the opposite sex!

What (and how) a man can learn about his woman's masturbation secrets... which will... supercharge HIS sex life!

A 15-minute change in the way you shower and dress which may very likely double your animal attractiveness to the opposite sex!

Ten things a man must know about a woman which guarantees he and she will have GREAT (not just good) sex!

A simple 3-second "trick" which 100% eliminates "performance anxiety" in men! (Note: This "trick" has been used for centuries by the most daring and successful men in the world.)

How to get into a deep, soul-pleasing rapport with your lover... and... stay there forever! (You will never feel alone again.)

Four little "target words" which can help you win your lover's heart forever!

How to guarantee your lover almost never stops thinking about you... and... how to make sure all those thoughts are supercharged with passion and white-hot, smoldering anticipation!

What 44% of women wish men knew about the easiest way to bring her to an intoxicating climax... every time!

 

      Are you starting to get the idea there are some things about great sex you have been missing? If so, don't feel alone. More than 99.9% of the world's population is completely ignorant of these "killer sex" secrets. But, you know what? We are not finished yet... not by a long shot. Here are yet more of the secrets revealed in this amazing book:

The 10 most common "clumsy mistakes" 90% of all men make during lovemaking... and... how to quickly learn the "inside secrets" of the most satisfied 10%!

A very important (but almost unknown) "trick" which will end "nagging" on both sides of a relationship... forever!

Why your fingernails might literally be ruining your love life!

What women really want from a man! (Nine out of ten men are absolutely floored by this secret... because... they didn't have the slightest clue.)

Why men almost always fail to understand a woman's "physiological signals" even after years of marriage! (Just learning this one secret will take your love life into another dimension.)

The only list anyone can trust about what really makes a man attractive to women! (Why can this list be trusted? Simply because... it was compiled by thousands of women.)

How often (on average) do men think about sex every day? How often do women think about sex every day? (Hint: The answers will astonish you.)

A "Last Stop" medical option for men with medical problems which prevent them from achieving an erection! (Doctors can now bring back full sex lives in 90% of cases.)

The single biggest turn-on of every woman... and... how a man who knows how to give it to her can use this simple "sure-fire" secret to enjoy devotion and love so deep and profound... most men can't even imagine it!

How to (at any age) make sex last all night long... and... experience the most intense, prolonged orgasms you've ever imagined!

The incredible "success patterns" which actually give physically unattractive men a HUGE romantic advantage over good-looking hunks!

A very rare fact: Men have three different kinds of orgasms... and why... most men are cheated from having the very best, most electrifying and satisfying one!

How to know what kind of win-or-lose "sexual chemistry codes" you are sending every time you kiss your lover!

The single most important thing a man can do to win a woman's love... forever!

Why women hate most porno tapes... but... you will learn the ultra-secret "wish list" of sex tapes women are literally devouring in private! (These secret videos seem to supercharge women with an intense, erotically-positive sexual energy.)

The two amazingly simple secrets (totally unknown by most men) which will cause "peak sexual excitation"... and... give men dramatically, longer-lasting orgasms!

Five secrets you need to know... if... you want to be able to kiss like a truly world-class lover! (This is the type of erotic foreplay more and more women are demanding men learn.)

The most important (and most little-known) quality a man MUST have if he wants to approach a truly desirable woman... and... have any chance of success! (Women will overlook everything else except this.)

What would you guess is the single most common... and... most devastating sexual problem among U.S. couples today? (You'll not only find out what it is when you read this book... you'll also learn... why experts have discovered it's the easiest problem to treat.)

How to achieve true, heart pounding intimacy which almost guarantees your relationship will last forever!

How a man can help his woman find her "G-spot" which is a hyper-sensitive (anatomically hidden) little pleasure point... most women never discover by themselves! (And will she ever love you for this.)

The amazing "Towel-Hanging" trick which triples the strength of a man's erections... and... allows him to experience "rocket-burst" orgasms which will give him (and her) pleasure almost beyond belief!

How to tell if a woman is really "turned on"... or... if she is just faking it! (Most men don't have a clue about what "signals" a woman can't stop sending out... which... always reveal the honest truth.)

       Why is Julie Paris willing to send you a copy of this book... and why... is she willing to send it to you 100% FREE?

      The answer is easy: It's a bribe! It's an "ethical" bribe to get you to give her a trial order of her new product called "Fire Play"!

      What is "Fire Play"? It's a bioactively-engineered product that her friends sometimes call "the woman's Viagra"... or... sometimes they describe it as the "instant-turn-on" product.  Women who know about and use this product (there are very few of them) NEVER use this product unless they know...

They Are About To Have Sex!

       After all, what's the point of being almost unbelievably sexually aroused... if... you don't have a sex partner to enjoy that situation with you... and... leave you completely satisfied?

      Julie Paris is an expert on the "chemical biology" of women. Before this message, she trusted only three men  to use with their women lovers. These are the only three men she trusted 100%... and... here is what they said about the product:

 

"I love to see my girlfriend in ecstasy! I love to see her out of control and going beyond her normal sexual limits. She and I both have decided we are going to keep using 'Fire Play' for as long as we are alive. And believe me, this product makes both of us really come alive!"

~ 1st man allowed to have FirePlay

 

"I love the way it's now her who's the one always hounding me for sex! Not only is our sex life 100  times better, the way she acts when we use this product makes me feel like I am 7' tall."

~ 2nd man allowed to have FirePlay

 

"Ohhh My God! This stuff works like crazy! You wouldn't know my woman and I have been together for all these years. We are now like sex-starved teenagers all over again!"

~ 3rd man allowed to have FirePlay

      Anyway, here's the deal: Julie has decided to make "Fire Play" available to every man (or woman) who has read the book (written by Bert Halgary) described earlier in this letter. She'll send you a 60-day supply of "Fire Play"... and... in the same package, she'll include a FREE copy of the book. After trying "Fire Play" for a 60-day trial period, if you are dissatisfied with it, for any reason (or no reason whatsoever) you can return any unused portion for a complete and immediate refund.

      And not only that... you can keep the FREE copy of the book included in the package.

      By the way, as one of the three men Julie trusted to use this product, I have a piece of advice for any other man who buys "Fire Play": Make sure YOU are the one who controls access to this product. Don't even think about going off to work or on a trip and letting your woman keep this stuff in her bathroom cabinet.

      I'm sure your girlfriend or wife is 100% faithful to you... but... I'm also sure you want to KEEP it that way.

      Hey, give it a try. It comes with an iron-clad 100% money-back guarantee... and... you get to keep the FREE book even if you decide to return the product after using it for the 60-day trial period.

Click Here To Get Some

 

 

  Okay Buckwheat, how'd ya like that one? Think there's anybody else you know who could write a website like that? I don't either! Do you think there's anybody who has an ounce of life left in them who's not going to be interested in that website and that product? I don't either!

  So the question now is... 

How The Hell Can This
Website Make YOU Some Money?

   It's very simple: You must have at least a couple of friends, don't you? And a few associates? All you have to do is encourage those people to go to Julie's website and, if they order her product, she will send YOU $20 for every customer you refer. By the way, this amazing product sells for only $69.95 plus $3 shipping and handling.

   Now consider this: If you have a LOT of friends or maybe even a mailing list of prospects or customers (for whatever it is you are selling), you could communicate with ALL these people and receive lots of $20's from Julie.

   How will Julie know if these orders are from your friends or associates? It's easy. Contact Julie and she'll give you a 9-digit "code". Those 9-digits will belong to you and you alone. Then, all you have to do is give your friends, associates or mailing list, Julie's website address followed by YOUR code. It'll be something like this:

 www.ShesOnFire.com/123456789

   Picture this: There you are munching on your Twinkies, sipping beer, kicking back in your Lazyboy and watching the 112th version of some "Survivor" show. Your buddy calls you up and you guys get to talking about things like bowling, bass fishing, strippers, where to get bib overalls at a discount, and other stuff like that. Then you say to your buddy, "Hey Joe, I got a website you should check out. Get a pencil and jot this down somewhere you won't lose it. The website address is www.ShesOnFire.com forward slash [and now give him YOUR secret code]. Joe, I promise you, I'll be your best friend for the rest of your life after you visit this website."

   Your friend goes to the website, becomes crazed to get the free book and the product, gives Julie an order, and she sends you 20 buckaroos. And just think, you haven't even had to break a sweat or get up off your lazy ass... and... that $20 referral fee will buy you a couple more six packs. (I think what you've just read is Gary Halbert's idea of "affiliate marketing".)

   Not that it matters (actually, it DOES matter) but, Julie's product honest-to-God, for real really does work. And the free book mentioned in the website honest-to-God, for real does deliver 100% on every secret. There is no hype here. It's all true.

   Anyway, if you are interested in this, contact Julie at www.ShesOnFire.com/friends/default.asp and tell her to whom and where you want your checks sent. As soon as you do that, she will instantly e-mail you back and give you your own secret code number.

   By the way, I want you to know about the first really and truly "officially-trained" Gary Halbert copywriter. His name is David Allard and you can find out all about him at www.DaveAllard.com. I want you to know though, I just can't understand why he said such hurtful things about me on his website.

   Oh hell. That's enough for this month, isn't it?

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 a/k/ Bert Halgary

P.S. I once said I knew more about how to increase website profits than any man alive. Then I met John Reese and had to concede he knows a hell of a lot more about increasing website profits than I could ever hope to learn.

      John is having a seminar that... if you can afford it... is a seminar you literally MUST attend. He's the guy who... when he starts talking about increasing your website profits... everybody shuts up and listens. He has had more than 28,750 dot.com URL's. He's generated more than 1-1/2 billion hits to his various websites. He's conducted more than 65,000 scientific split tests. And, he's just "come out of the closet" (so to speak) and decided to reveal his website profit making secrets to the world.

      John's seminar has my STRONGEST recommendation. Just in case you're wondering, I don't receive a penny for urging my readers attend his seminar. I am suggesting it simply because... if you are interested in making website profits, I honestly believe you will learn more at his seminar than all the other website profit seminars combined.

       But, his seminar is nearly sold out. He told me he has only a handful of seats left. He and I have become great friends and I am providing you with the website address which will take you directly to a description of what you will learn if you are lucky enough to attend this seminar. The only reason this website address has my last name in it is so he will know you are one of "my people"... and thus... you will be bumped to the front of the line of people competing to occupy one of these few available spots left.

      This is the website address for you to copy and paste into your web browser. It is not a link:

  www.MarketingSecrets.com/HalbertOnly.html

P.S. #2 By the way, now that Theresa is back and I'm starting to get cranked up on all 8 cylinders again, you can expect to start hearing from me more often. For one thing, I've written nearly 200 newsletters... but... only about a third of these are currently on my website. My plan is to start putting my back issues on the site at the rate of approximately one per week. Make sure you've got a good ophthalmologist... because... I'm going to make a sincere effort to burn your eyeballs out.

          Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Money

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/ac_money.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

A good man has died.

His name is Bobby. And, in this letter, I am not going to write very much about him. Perhaps I will in a future newsletter. But, not now.

That's because right now I feel I'm too close to the subject of his death to write about it. I met him a few times but, I can't say I was really ever close to him. However, I am very close to one of his daughters. That would be my #1 Assistant, Theresa.

I've had some experience with people who have had terminal cancer.

In his case, I didn't expect he would live long enough to see his granddaughter's wedding which was scheduled for last August. He did live long enough to be there though.

After that, I knew he couldn't possibly survive until Thanksgiving. When he survived to Thanksgiving, I knew it was certain he couldn't possibly continue on until Christmas. But Christmas came and he again proved me wrong.

Bobby outlived his doctors' and nurses' expectations of never seeing the New Year. His mind and body continued enduring till almost Superbowl Sunday.

I think all of this is more evidence of a fact I sometimes am reluctant to admit. That fact is, it seems my mother was correct when she named me "Gary" instead of "God".

A brief story: At this time last year, one of my in-laws was diagnosed with fatal cancer of the liver. He had a rare blood type and it was extremely unlikely a donor could be found in time to save his life. Even if by some miracle a donor was found, the chances of this man living a healthy life (or just plain living) were not very favorable.

This is a man for whom almost everybody who knew him was already emotionally prepared for his death which almost certainly would occur within a few months. At the same time he was diagnosed with liver cancer, Theresa's father was a strapping 230-pound man seemingly in perfect health.

As it has come to pass, my in-law DID receive a new liver from someone with the same blood type, his body seems to have accepted it well, and he is now leading a healthy life, which includes running several miles a day.

And, as I said at the beginning of this letter, that strapping 230-pound man, Theresa's father, is no longer with us.

If there is one last thing I am certain about in today's world it is...

Uncertainty!

Anyone who thinks they can predict the future for ten years, one year, one month, one day, one hour, or even one minute will, sooner or later, have fate prove him (or her) to be a fool.

Remember the words "yesterday is dead and gone" and "tomorrow's out of sight"? They were true when they were written about 40 years ago, they were true 4,000 years ago, and they are still true today. So, if you have someone you love or are fond of (or at least you appreciate) I suggest you let them know NOW. Next week, tomorrow, or even this evening might prove to be too late.

There is a lot to Bobby Canady's story but, I'm going to sum up what I know about him in one word...

Decent.

As I said, perhaps I'll write more about him later but, not now.

You see, Theresa temporarily moved out of State to be by her father's side and devoted her time 24/7 to be his nurse. So, there are hundreds of e-mails, faxes, letters and phone calls which have gone unanswered. And since we used another service for fulfillment,there have also been some mix-ups in orders. Because "Yours Truly" is so dysfunctional, so many everyday things have simply gone by the wayside.

But, now that Theresa is back at her desk, we're going to start digging out of this mess and, after a while, perhaps we'll have our world back in order.

I want to ask you a favor: If you have an e-mail which hasn't been responded to, or any other kind of communication which hasn't been answered, or any other business detail not responded to by my office, please do NOT contact us immediately. Do NOT ask us to reply and correct this situation right now. The favor I want to ask is... give us two or three weeks "breathing room" to get to where we can see a little daylight. Then, perhaps we can, once again, begin dealing with our daily workload with some semblance of timeliness.

Enough of that. Let's now write a newsletter. The subject of this one is...

Money!

Do you think you know a lot about money? Maybe you do. Maybe you don't. But let's see if any of the following facts are in any way surprising to you:

More of our fantasies are about money... than sex.
If we could have any luxury in the world (and money didn't matter) more of us would choose to spend money on a butler and a maid than anything else.
90% of Americans who own pets buy them Christmas gifts.
Money is the leading cause of disagreements in marriages.
65% of Americans would live on a deserted island all by themselves for an entire year for $1,000,000.
For $10,000,000 most of us would do almost ANYTHING! Including abandoning our family and friends and our church. A very high percentage of us would, for that same amount of money, change our race or sex. And, 1 in every 14, would even murder someone for ten million bucks.

What's really strange about this is, the statistics remain the same whether it's ten million dollars all the way down to three million. For three million bucks, most of us would do the same horrible things we would do for ten million. But, guess what? Few of us would do these things for a "measly" two million.
92% of us would rather be rich than find the love of our lives.
Here's a weighty one: Money (or the lack thereof) is the biggest stress inducer in the lives of Americans. We worry more about money than our marriages, our health, or even who's going to win the Superbowl Game or come out on top in the latest Survivor TV show.
If you get your money out of a Hitachi ATM machine in Japan, it will be laundered. The way they do it is, they briefly press the bills between rollers at high enough temperatures to kill most bacteria.
Women have very fixed ideas on how much they are willing to spend on a bra. 38.3% of women won't spend $30 for a bra. 28.4% won't spend $50. 10% would pay as much as $75. And, only 3.5% would shell out $100. But, you know what? Almost 20% of women say they would pay almost anything for a bra. This is because they consider (and I guess so do a few men) that the contents of what those bras are encasing is of extremely high-value.
Nearly half of the people who sell their houses with furniture included will take all the light bulbs out of all the lamps when they vacate the premises.
Most people won't bend over to pick up money lying on the sidewalk unless it's at least a dollar.
Most Americans think pennies are a pain in the ass and the U.S. Mint should stop making them.
There is about 405 billion dollars in circulation. Only 32 million of that amount is counterfeit. That means, the percentage of counterfeit money in America is .0079%. And, $20 bills are more often counterfeited than $100 bills.
Do people care if their bills are crisp? Indeed, they do. Fresh, crisp, clean bills are considered much more valuable than those which are old, wrinkled and dirty.

I once sent a 'dollar bill thank you' letter to a guy who sent a sincere letter back to me bitching the free $1 bill I sent him was wrinkled instead of crisp as I had described in the letter.
Let's flip a coin and try to guess whether it will come up heads or tails. Three times as many people guess 'heads' than 'tails'.
Here's one I personally think really sucks: One out of every four Americans believe their best chance of getting rich is by playing the lottery.
How about this one for a shocking fact: 5% of lottery ticket buyers buy 51% of all tickets sold. (Trust me, none of these people belong to the "Einsteins of America Society".)
A staggering 74% of us are influenced by how much we can win in a lottery as opposed to the odds of us winning.
That's a good thing for the Government because the odds of winning a lottery jackpot are about 10 million to 1.
A person who drives 10 miles to buy a lottery ticket is 3 times more likely to be killed in a car accident while driving to buy the ticket... than... he is to win the jackpot.
Sunday newspaper coupon inserts are the second-most read section of the paper, after the front page.
Few people know it but, you can buy single-disease insurance.
Only 6% of people in America regularly buy clothes tailor made just for them.
Here's one that's really important: 63% of us decide NOT to buy a product advertised on the Internet... because... we think the shipping and handling charges add too much to the order.
Eight times as many Americans would rather use an ATM than deal with a real live teller.
This one's going to blow your mind: 83% of Americans still pay with checks instead of credit cards!
Almost 30% of us say we would need 3 million smackaroos to feel rich. This ties in with the fact most of us would do anything for as little as $3 million... but... not nearly as many of us would do those identical things for a measly $2 million. (Hey, here's your chance to take advantage of that situation. If you only want to pay $2 million to have something done, ask me if I'll do it. The chances are, believe it or not, I WILL DO IT.)
Here's another fact which is really, really important: 80% of Americans say giving personal information (especially their credit card information) over the Internet scares the living shit out of them.
Two-thirds of Americans say they wouldn't let their spouse spend the night and have sex with another person for a million dollars. Many of these people are liars. There's a big difference being asked if they would do it for a million dollars... as opposed to... handing them a paper sack containing the million fungolas and simply saying, "Here, you can have this if you'll let me sleep with your sweetie tonight."
The average wedding in America costs a staggering $20,000.00.
More than one-third of American women consider money more important than good sex to the success of a marriage.
According to Employee Benefits Research Institute 96% of all people who have jobs right now won't be eligible for their full Social Security benefits when they reach age 65.
When it comes to houses, more than anything else, people want a state-of-the-art kitchen.
When people shop for a car, what they want more than anything else is reliability for the best possible price.
One of the best ways to raise money for a charity is to have a free dinner for a lot of people and have an empty envelope tucked under their plate... for the express purpose... of making whatever size donation they want.
People tip more on sunny days than they do on dreary days.
More than 80,000,000 people call the I.R.S. Information Hotline phone number every year. One-third of those calls go unanswered. And, according to the Treasury Department itself, 47% of the answers the 'get-through' callers receive are incorrect.
Almost two out of three people have modified their financial behavior because of their fears.
Almost three times as many people who live in the South worry about losing their jobs as compared to people who live in the Midwest.
Which would you rather do: Shop till you drop... or... have great sex?

For men, this is a no-brainer.

However, more women would actually rather have an unlimited shopping spree than spend a weekend with a fabulous lover. In fact, the #1 favorite fantasy of women is to have a blank check to shop at their favorite store.

The favorite fantasy of men (at least in my opinion) is what we would like to DO to the sales girl... rather than... what we would like to buy from her.


Why am I so focused on money this month? Plain and simple... because...

I Need Some!

Seven months of trying to function without my Assistant taking care of my business has put a severe dent in my financial situation. I think maybe in the near future, I'm going to give a low-priced seminar which will be so tightly focused on making money, a lot of people (at least if they are not out buying bras) will pay me to attend. I'm still mulling it over and if I decide to do it, I'll write to you about it soon.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
 	"Cheaper Than Three Million"


P.S.	

By the way, the somewhat "Halbertized" facts in this newsletter were inspired from a book by Bernice Kanner titled "Are You Normal About Money?" She's written a number of other interestingly-titled books and I suggest you put her name into your search engine and see what you come up with. I'm sure there's going to be something you're going to want to buy.




P.S.#2	

This is one of my rare newsletters which does not give my readers a clear course of action. Rather, it is meant to jump-start their sluggish brains. And I'll make you a bet: I bet a few people reading this newsletter e-mail me and tell me one or more of the facts in this issue jump-started their brains with a great idea... that... made huge amounts of fungolas for them.

Except for a guy named David Allard. I don't think there's anything I can do to get his sluggish brain going. And I'll tell you more about him in an upcoming issue.




 	Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2004 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Interesting Facts

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/ac_interesting_facts.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Most good direct response copywriters have a "swipe file" of headlines, bullet points, sales letters, reply envelopes, coupons, etc.

But what most copywriters don't realize is, they should also have a swipe file of...

Interesting Facts!

I'm going to start the rest of this newsletter by telling you some interesting facts... and then... I am going to show you how you can use interesting facts to make a lot of money.


OK, here are 12 interesting facts:

If Jell-O is hooked up to an EEG, it registers movements virtually identical to the brain waves of a healthy adult.
On average, a Twinkie will explode in a microwave in 45 seconds.
100 shares of McDonald's stock worth $2,250 when it was first offered in 1965 was worth more than 1.4 million dollars 30 years later in 1995.
The original package of M&M's contained brown, yellow, orange, red, green and violet colored candies. The red ones were taken out of the mix in 1976. This is no tbecause they contained red dye #2. It was because company officials were afraid customers would think it did contain that dye..
The dollar sign is a combination of the letters "P" and "S", which is the abbreviation for pesos which was the principle coin in circulation in the United States until 1794. After that, we began marketing our own dollars.
Most American currency contains micro-printed messages to prevent counterfeiting; for example, on the $1 bill, there is an owl in the upper left hand corner of the numeral "1" and a spider hidden in the upper right.

The phrase "United States of America" is camouflaged within the label of Benjamin Franklin's jacket on the newer $100 bill.
A dime has 118 ridges around the edge.
The man who commissioned the Mona Lisa refused it.
Sunglasses were first worn in 15th century China. They were used by judges to conceal their expressions while presiding over court.
Erich Segal, the author of "Love Story" was also one of the screenwriters of "Yellow Submarine".
In the movie, "It Happened One Night" Clark Gable peeled a raw carrot with a pen knife and then munched upon it as he attempted to teach Claudette Colbert how to hitchhike. That scene inspired Warner Brothers to give Bugs Bunny his signature carrot chomp.
According to the film's animators, you'll see 6,649,952 black spots every time you watch the movie "101 Dalmations".

All those facts came out of a little book by David Hoffman titled "Who Knew?" and subtitled "Things You Didn't Know About Things You Know Well". There are many other interesting facts in this little book and I highly recommend you get it and add it to your library.

Of course there are hundreds of books containing interesting facts at your local bookstore. Almanacs are the first that come to mind. But, there are many others and you should have a collection of them.

One of the primary ways to use interesting facts in your copy is to use them to segue into your selling message. "Segue" basically means "making a smooth transition from one part of a presentation to another". Remember the formula for sales success is AIDA. Attention, Interest, Desire and Action.

That means, most of your sales letters should contain a printed headline to catch Attention.

The headline should be followed by a salutation and then something interesting which captures the readers's Interest.

And then, of course, you go on to whet his Desire for what you are selling.

Finally, you motivate him to Action to buy it.

Now, let's have a little fun. I'm going to take those interesting facts and use them in a way that segues into a selling message. Here we go:

Dear Friend,

If Jell-O is hooked up to an EEG, it registers movements virtually identical to the brain waves of a healthy adult.

I mention this because I just returned from a seminar of so-called "web master experts". And I think if you hooked-up their brains to an EEG machine, their brain waves would be inferior to the brain waves of plain, ol' Jell-O.

It seems to me, none of them knew anything of real value about enhancing website profits. Like the few secrets I am about to reveal in this letter:

	
You might use this verbiage to sell a course on increasing website profits
	



Dear Friend,

On average, a Twinkie will explode in a microwave in 45 seconds.

This is, I believe, less time than it takes for a prospect to go ballistic when he or she is put on hold or into "voicemail hell". Only stupid marketers allow this to happen. If you sell anything that people can order by phone, you need to know about some of the secrets in my new book called "17 Magic Ways To Turn Incoming Telephone Calls Into Massive Amounts Of Money".

	
An obvious intro for a book promoting proper telephone salesmanship
	



Dear Friend,

100 shares of McDonald's stock worth $2,250 when it was first offered in 1965 was worth more than 1.4 million dollars 30 years later in 1995.

That sounds great, doesn't it? But, if you had held on to those same 100 shares for another eight or nine years, you would find them to be worth only $2,478. This is an excellent illustration of why timing in the stock market is everything.

	
For a book or course on investing in stocks
	



Dear Friend,

The original package of M&M's contained brown, yellow, orange, red, green and violet colored candies. The red ones were taken out of the mix in 1976. This is not because they contained red dye #2. It was because company officials were afraid customers would think it did contain that dye.

This illustrates the fact that very often people's perception of what is true is more important than what is actually true. That's why you need to read my new book titled "The Secrets Of How Successful People Look, Dress And Act".

	
Obviously, a pitch for a book teaching how to look and act like a success
	



Dear Friend,

The dollar sign is a combination of the letters "P" and "S", which is the abbreviation for pesos which was the principle coin in circulation in the United States until 1794. After that, we began marketing our own dollars.

Right now, a real peso (used as Mexican currency) is only worth about nine American cents. And you know what? Most Americans earn so little compared to what they should be earning... they might as well be getting paid in pesos.

And that's a shame because, with just a few simple secrets, anyone with average intelligence can increase their income dramatically. Here's how...

	
For a product teaching people how to make more money
	



Dear Friend,

Most American currency contains micro-printed messages to prevent counterfeiting; for example, on the $1 bill, there is an owl in the upper left hand corner of the numeral "1" and a spider hidden in the upper right.

That's all very interesting but, you know what? Most Americans have to spend their money so quickly after they get paid, they have zero time to examine their cash for interesting little embedded images and messages. And that's because most Americans are living from paycheck to paycheck... when... they could easily be making more money than they ever dreamed possible.

	
Another good way to start a sales letter about a product that teaches people how to make more money
	



Dear Friend,

A dime has 118 ridges around the edge.

Even though that may be interesting, a dime won't buy you much these days. On the bright side, I've got a book containing 150 pages which costs only a dime per page... but... each one of those pages reveals another remarkable secret about making more money than any sane person could possibly spend!

	
Yet another way to start a pitch that has something to do with your " money-making product
	



Dear Friend,

The man who commissioned the Mona Lisa refused it.

That man was just one of the millions of people who know the price of everything... and... the value of nothing.

He reminds me of the people who think they are getting a bargain when they buy a cheap air purifier. Actually, it's just the opposite. They are NOT getting a bargain. You see, after you factor in the extra cost of electricity to run an inferior air purifier... and... the fact it doesn't work well at all to keep people free from impurities that set off allergic and asthmatic reactions... it's not a bargain at all. It's just down-right cheap.

That's why I want to tell you a few facts about the new ionic air purifier sold by Sharper Image.

	
For a sales pitch for the ionic air purifier... which is, by the way... a great product.
	



Dear Friend,

Sunglasses were first worn in 15th century China. They were used by judges to conceal their expressions while presiding over court.

That reminds me of a very important fact you should know when you are negotiating to buy something: The more interested a person is about buying something, the less excited they will try to look about wanting to buy it.

In my new course, "Negotiating Yourself To Wealth" I reveal...

	
For a book on negotiating tactics.
	



Dear Friend,

Erich Segal, the author of "Love Story" was also one of the screenwriters of "Yellow Submarine".

That's not as surprising as you might think. You see, a really good writer can write equally well on a multiplicity of subjects. And good novelists usually come from a background of non-fiction book writing or newspaper and magazine reporting. These are people who learned in their previous occupations (writing for another medium) how to keep readers interested in their message.

But don't worry, even if you never wrote a newspaper article, short story or novel in your life, my new copywriting course will teach you...

	
For a product on how to write better copy.
	



Dear Friend,

In the movie, "It Happened One Night" Clark Gable peeled a raw carrot with a pen knife and then munched upon it as he attempted to teach Claudette Colbert how to hitchhike. That scene inspired Warner Brothers to give Bugs Bunny his signature carrot chomp.

This just goes to prove you never know where a jackpot idea is going to come from.

But, there are ways to turn your mind into a high frequency antenna which is virtually always alert for facts and ideas that can be turned into a financial goldmine. Let me explain...

	
For a product which has something to do with money making.
	



Dear Friend,

According to the film's animators, you'll see 6,649,952 black spots every time you watch the movie "101 Dalmations".

I don't have to watch that movie to see black spots before my eyes. All I have to do is listen to John Carlton attempt to make an interesting speech on marketing and my vision blurs and I start to hallucinate.

That's because I see the correct way to market things so much more clearly than John... that... when he's speaking, it scrambles my mind.

	
That's not true, of course. John's a great teacher of marketing. But it would be an interesting way to have a little fun and for me to start one of my
newsletters, wouldn't it?
	

All right. That should be enough for you to get the idea. Now I'm going to give you some more interesting facts and I'm going to suggest YOU use these facts to lead your readers into a selling message just as I have done in the above examples.

This first one is a doozy. It's NOT from the book I mentioned earlier but, believe it or not, it is true. If you can use this interesting fact to start a selling message, I would be very interested in seeing what you came up with. Remember, the idea is not to come up with something cute... but... to come up with something that is valid and will lead to a sale. Anyway, here's the first of the interesting facts I want you to work with:

a)	There is a small Roman Catholic church in Murtosa in Northern Portugal and it is the only Roman Catholic church where it is acceptable to drop your trousers so everyone in the church can see your naked rear end. The reason? The local saint, St. Gonacalo (a colorful 13th century priest) has a reputation for curing hemorrhoids. All you have to do is show up at the church, show his statue the affected region, say a prayer and, according to the locals, the pain disappears.
And here's 14 other interesting facts for you to work with:
b)	The ostrich cannot fly but it can outrun a race horse.
c)	An ostrich's eye is bigger than its brain.
d)	The studio that made the movie "Casa Blanca" expected the movie to be a box office disaster. So they kept the budget of the film so low, the plane used in the background of the final scene was a small cardboard cutout. To give it the illusion of being full sized, the producers hired midgets to portray the crew who prepared it for take off.
e)	Marilyn Monroe developed her signature walk by hacking off the heel of one shoe.
f)	If you ever see the name "Alan Smithee" in the credits of a movie, it means the real director considered the movie so crummy, he didn't want his or her real name to be used.
g)	The stabbing sound the knife in the movie "Psycho" made is actually the sound of a knife stabbing a melon.
h)	Tigers have striped skin, not just striped fur.
i)	The number of cricket chirps you can hear in 15 seconds plus 37 will tell you the current air temperature.
j)	Panama hats are actually made in Ecuador.
k)	"Stewardesses" is the longest word in the English language that can be typed using only your left hand.
l)	In the Batman comic books, only Batman and Robin live in the Wayne Mansion. In the Batman movies however, an elderly woman, Aunt Harriett, also lives there. This is because producers fear two bachelors and a butler living together might make people think they have homosexual overtones.
m)	The smell of Crayola crayons is so familiar, it is one of the most 20 recognized scents to adults. It ranks up there with coffee and peanut butter. The smell of Crayola crayons is so soothing, that sniffing them has been proven to lower blood pressure.
n)	The name "Atari" was chosen so customers who bought their products would think it was based in Japan. It was actually based in Northern California.
o)	On the average, we forget 80% of what we learn on any given day.

Okay students, start writing your own sales letters. Remember to begin with "Dear Friend". Then, make the intro paragraph one of the Interesting Facts you've just read. That will be followed by the second paragraph which is your segue into your sales letter. That's your homework for this month. And shame on you if you don't get right down to it.

Now, I'd like to finish up some "housekeeping" details:

First, many of you want to know how to order my book "The Boron Letters". That book is featured in the newsletter inside the envelope icon called "Disaster Insurance". In that letter, I told you how to get my book by calling a voicemail phone number. Unfortunately, when I initially put that newsletter up on my website, I had the wrong voicemail number. But, that issue has since been corrected. I suggest you skim through "Disaster Insurance" again... and... if you would like to have a copy of "The Boron Letters" (which contain perhaps the most concise and valuable direct marketing lessons ever printed between two covers) call the correct number, which happens to be (305) 866-3613.

You know, I receive a barrage of e-mails every day asking me what books and courses I recommend on marketing. So, starting with my next newsletter, near the end of each issue I am going to enclose a link you can click on to learn about another direct marketing information product that I enthusiastically recommend.

Now here's something else: I've developed a minor obsession with having a high Alexa ranking. A major part of the Alexa ranking is how much traffic goes to your website on a daily basis. So, I want to have a lot of people going to my site every day and here's what I'm going to do: Every day (right after I publish the next edition of this newsletter), I am going to send everybody on my mailing list a one-line e-mail message saying something like "Click here for today's Halbertism". These will be pearls of wisdom. Some created by me, some "pinched" from other people or books, some inspirational, some just funny, and so on. But the idea is to give you a way to start your day with a bit of knowledge, inspiration or humor to enrich your life.

If you don't like this idea and don't want to receive e-mails about my precious Halbertisms, please let me know via e-mail to NoSexGary@aol.com before I write my next newsletter.

OK, that's it for this issue. I, for one, am extremely happy 2003 has come to an end. I truly wouldn't want to live it over again.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
 	"Student of Facts for Fun and Profits"


P.S.	

Please don't forget to re-read "Disaster Insurance". I consider it to be one of the most important pieces of writing ever written.

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2004 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How Plastic Surgery Helped Me Become A World-Class Copywriter!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/ac_plasticsurgery.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

If you would like to know how plastic surgery helped me become a world-class copywriter, this will be the most exciting message you will ever read.

Here is why:

Years ago, I looked very different than I do now. I was just a smidgen over 6'2" tall. I weighed 170 pounds and my body fat was only 7%. I had "six pack" abs and my stomach was as flat as a washboard. My hair was thick, dark brown... and... in fact... it was almost black. My teeth were near perfect and I had (what would now be called) a "Baywatch Smile".

And, there's another thing: I've never revealed this before... because... it's so personal. In addition to that, as you know, I strive to always be politically correct... and... I struggle to NEVER offend anyone. Plus, on delicate, sensitive matters, I try to "tiptoe" around the subject as much as I can and still get the point across. So, I hope you can understand what I am about to write and not force me to be more explicit. Anyway, what I am trying to tell you in the least offensive and most civilized way possible is...

I Was Hung Like A Horse!

All of this added up to me being a "babe magnet" the likes of which you've never seen. Women would just NOT leave me alone. They would knock on my door in the middle of the night, march into my office (uninvited) in the middle of the day, surprise me by hiding in the back seat of my car, and so on. All of them wanted a piece of me and my... (never mind).

Let's leave it at that: They all wanted a piece of me... and...

They Would Not Leave Me Alone!

This probably sounds like heaven to some guys. But, not me. I wanted to be a serious copywriter! And, you can't be a serious anything if you are constantly fighting off women.

But, I was so passionate about becoming a great writer, it was nothing but a massive interference in my life. So, I started looking for a solution and, finally I found just what I needed: I found a plastic surgeon... who could truly work miracles!

I explained my problem to him and he was very sympathetic. He went to work on me and, it took nearly a year (and almost every cent I had) but, he got the job done. The easiest part was my hair. He thinned it out and used an electronic probe to kill the hair follicles so the hair couldn't grow back. In a very short time, he turned me into...

A Half-Bald Man Who
Looked Like He Would Soon
Lose The Rest Of His Hair!

My height was the toughest problem. He managed to remove several vertebrae from my spine and "compress" the others. This was a tricky and painful procedure but, it was worth it because... now...

I Am Nowhere
Near 6'2" Tall!

And, that lean body and those six-pack abs? He simply put a stop to my fitness workouts and put me on a very high-calorie, high-fat diet. And, guess what? Nowadays, I've still got those six-pack abs... but... they are hidden under pounds of fat and completely invisible.

And, that other part? The part about being hung like a horse? He fixed that too. And now, I'm just "normal" like most other guys.

Net result:

Women Stopped Bothering Me And I
Was Able To Study Like Crazy And I
Did Become A World-Class Writer!

And, what sweet joy it is.

Except for one thing: Remember how I said that plastic surgeon made me normal? Yes, he did make me "normal"... but... he did NOT make me "inadequate".

I think one of my well-meaning friends got confused about this... because... every day I get a boatload of e-mails about how to make the private most part of me thicker and longer. (Note: I wrote "private most part" because I don't think it would be proper to write the word "penis" in this newsletter.)

See how I'm looking out for you?

And, whomever got confused about my "package" seems to be equally confused about all my friends also... because... they too get these e-mail messages. Hundreds of them.

Even My Female Friends Get Them!

For which I apologize. I don't know exactly what happened. I think I must've told my story in a bar one day when I was tired and depressed... and... the sympathetic guy I was talking with took it upon himself to try and help me and all my friends.

But, all's well that ends well. Aside from the minor inconvenience I just described, I have ended up a normal man and a great writer and...

I Will Still Be Giving
Thanks To That Wonderful
Plastic Surgeon To My
Dying Day!

I bet you don't think there's a marketing lesson here, do you? You are VERY wrong.

The story I just told you reveals the seed of perhaps the most important message you will ever learn. You'll understand completely by the end of this letter. But, I'm going to have to "sneak up" on the subject to do it justice.

Listen up: Not long ago I was watching a video of Dickie Betts playing guitar with the Allman Brothers Band. He was scorchingly hot. He got music out of that guitar which was unbelievable. He could practically make the damn thing talk. It was so passionate, so exciting and so skillful, I just couldn't imagine any musician being able to play like that.

So, I talked with my buddy John Carlton about it. John's a great guitar player himself (I HATE him for that; I can't even play a radio!) and he said the secret was simple. The secret is...

10,000 Hours!

When I asked him what he meant, he told me all experienced guitar players are approached by neophytes proudly saying they are learning to play the guitar. John says the experienced guitar players always ask the new guys two questions. One of them is a "trick" question and the other one is the "real" question. Here are the two questions:

Question 1:	"Oh yeah. That's great you're learning to play! How many lessons do you take every week?" (or month)
Question 2:	"How long do you practice every day?"

When I asked him what he meant, he told me all experienced guitar players are approached by neophytes proudly saying they are learning to play the guitar. John says the experienced guitar players always ask the new guys two questions. One of them is a "trick" question and the other one is the "real" question. Here are the two questions:

The real question... the one that makes all the difference is...

How Long Do You
Practice Every Day?!

You ever see a great magician doing "impossible" card tricks? He (if he had a great mentor) learned... how to do the trick... in less than an hour. But, it probably took him AT LEAST 100 hours of practice... before... he could actually do the trick... with enough skill... to amaze his audience.

Remember some of those great old stars in cowboy and war movies? Audie Murphy (the most decorated soldier in history) was one of those stars. One thing those stars practiced a lot was, drawing a handgun from a holster. And, there was a particular way to fire a handgun called "fanning". That's when you draw your six-shooter, pull the trigger with one hand and "fan" the hammer with the other. Audie Murphy could do this better than anyone else. His secret?

He Went By Himself
To The Malibu Hills And
Practiced Fanning His Six-Shooter
Almost Every Day... For TWO YEARS!

Tiger Woods sure can play great golf, can't he? His secret? He's been practicing his swings, his putts, his "reading the greens" for hours... almost every day... since he was 5 years old.

Larry Bird, the great basketball player from the Boston Celtics has practiced for long hours... mostly alone... almost every day of his entire career.

What do they do to people who MUST learn a foreign language in a VERY short period of time? Like the military or something? They are put in what's called "total immersion" classes for 24-hours per day. English in those classes is NEVER spoken.

I got to thinking about all this. Then, I figured out how long it took me to become as great a copywriter as I am today. The answer surprised me... because... after I pondered on it, I realized the answer is...

10 Years!

That's how long it took me to become a world-class "master" copywriter. But, I could write winners long before the 10-years were up. And, you know what? Unless you are brain dead, I can teach you to be good enough to write winner after winner in a very short period of time. And, that's as good as you need to be. You don't have to be as good as John Carlton, Gary Bencivenga or me. In fact, I think a sane person wouldn't even shoot for that goal. Me and thousands of other golfers have a great time... even though... we'll never be able to play par.

Actually, I think just plain, average copywriters make more money than us masters. You see, we master copywriters are so obsessed with our work, we almost forget the financial side of it.

On the other hand, a more normal guy (someone who is non-obsessed) will write a good ad... and then... exploit the hell out of it and make tons of money. Yet, us "masters" will write a good ad... and then... think about how we could improve the ad (maybe 2% more) or be thinking about headlines for the next ad we are writing. Us "masters" don't stop obsessing about the ad long enough to exploit the hell out of it.

People who are the best in ANY field are OBSESSED! Lance Armstrong never thinks about anything else except winning "Le Tour De France". Tiger Woods... never... thinks about anything but golf. And "master copywriters" never think about anything but copy. Sure, they may have wives, girlfriends, children, pets, hobbies, etc. But, you know what? They may love all of those things... but... they are obsessed with whatever it is they are best at. Everything else they do in their lives is simply...

Marking Time!

Marking time until they can get back to their obsession.

Once, I had an ad completely written and it was world-class. But did I let it go? No. There was one word which didn't seem just right... and.. I spent THREE ENTIRE DAYS... to come up with a single word that seemed a more exact fit.

Dan Kennedy is not a master copywriter. He doesn't claim to be. But he is very, very good. He's just NOT obsessed. And you know what? He has probably single-handedly put more people on the right path to profitable marketing than anyone else alive. Taken as a whole, Dan has probably provided 100 times more financial value to 100 times more people than I have. I'd rather have him taking care of my marketing affairs than I would me. He'd be out there getting the job done while I was "bottle-necking" (hey, I think I just invented a new word!) and agonizing over something already 99% perfect.

You don't have a choice what you become obsessed about. Obsession is not really healthy. It's not necessarily fun... and often... it sucks. I am about to tell you a story I thought I would never reveal because it's too private and too embarrassing. But, it illustrates the point of this letter perfectly and my insane obsession won't let me NOT tell you this story.

Ok, here it is... and... I swear on my mother's grave... it is 100% true.

Some years ago (before Sirian) I was having sex with a woman I not only loved... she was also the most sexually-exciting woman I had ever been with. The foreplay was over and we were right in the middle of "the act"... when... an idea for a headline popped into my head... and...

I Jumped Up From This Woman,
Bounded Out Of Bed And Rushed Over
To The Bedroom Dresser, Scrambled Around
Looking For A Pen And Paper
So I Could Write Down
That Headline!

Then, I sort of "came to" (it was like coming out of a coma) and looked over at a woman who was so absolutely astonished, she was gaga-eyed.

And, this was after that kindly plastic surgeon had finished his work with me and it was very difficult for me to get and keep a woman like the woman lying in my bed looking at me like I had gone insane.

Boy, did I ever start talking fast. I couldn't apologize enough. I told her I felt like I had been possessed by something (that's true) for a few minutes. Fortunately, it worked out OK. Mainly, I think, because...

She Was Too Astonished
To Be Angry!

Do you know the words "Gary Halbert" have value on the pay-per-click search engines? I think I'm currently worth 13¢. I put my name in "Google" the other day and found several sponsored sites using my name to get traffic to their website. One such website said, "GARY HALBERT TRAINED COPYWRITER." I was talking to John Carlton about this and I said, "Let's see what happens if we search for your name." We did and up came "JOHN CARLTON TRAINED COPYWRITER." (It was the same guy.)

John wrote this guy an e-mail and the site was taken down immediately.

To my knowledge, there has never been a "John Carlton Trained Copywriter". Plenty of guys read his newsletter, hear him speak and go to John's seminars. But, no one has actually apprenticed under John.

Are there any "Gary Halbert Trained Copywriters"? I think in my entire life, there have only been two. And NONE of them want clients. They don't need clients. They make too much money working on their own projects. Anyway, all this has been leading up to something: I am thinking about starting...

The Gary Halbert
School Of Copywriting!

It won't be a written course. It won't be a seminar. It won't be audio or video tapes. Nope. None of that. What it will be is... you will have to come to Miami and work with me for an entire month. You'll live in the same building I live in. It will pretty much be 24/7 intensive. When the 30-days are up, you will be able to write winner after winner. You'll have the most extensive "swipe file" of headlines, bullets, sales letters and print ads in the world. And... before you leave...

You Will Have One
Or More Paying Clients!

You'll have all my connections, all my "secret" business tricks (you'll be astonished when you learn all the things I don't write about) and, unless you are brain dead or lazy beyond belief... you will have a huge income for life!

You will then truly qualify as an "official" Gary Halbert Trained Copywriter. And when a prospective client looking for a copywriter reads my website (which is read by so many people it blew out my "hit counter") YOU will be listed as a "Gary Halbert RECOMMENDED Copywriter"!

Needless to say, you will be learning everything about copywriting I know. We'll also spend time on my boat. Maybe do a little fishing in the Gulf Stream, maybe just cruising around the Intercoastal Waterway, maybe take a side trip to Bimini. But, guess what we will be really focusing on during all this time? It will be nothing other than...

Copywriting!

We'll also take a few days side trip to Costa Rica. If you are in business here in the U.S., there are things and people you need to know about in Costa Rica... which... you will NEVER read about in this or any other newsletter or book.

How big is my "class" going to be? Try this on for size...

One!

One per month. And, it is going to cost a lot. Really a lot. So much, in fact, it will eliminate 99.9% of all people who read this from being able to afford it. I'm sorry. But, this time, I'm giving up my time, my space, my energy, my connections, my knowledge...

EVERYTHING!

If you're married, can you bring your wife? No. She can come visit you on Sundays if you like.

Can you bring your kids or your pets? Absolutely not

What about bringing your cell phone? Yes, that you can bring. But, it will have to remain turned OFF for at least 8 to 10 hours every day.

Can you make payments towards your "schooling"? Nope.

Can you pay for your "schooling" by credit card? Nope.

How much is it for you to attend "The Gary Halbert School of Copywriting"?

$27,000!

Paid in full. Paid in advance. Paid by check. And, no refunds.

Class starts the first week in January and will last, more or less, ONE FULL MONTH.

If you are interested, e-mail me at NoSexGary@aol.com. Put the words "Copywriting School" in the Subject Line of your e-mail (otherwise I might delete it). Be sure to put your phone number in your e-mail so I can call you back. I'm not kidding when I say, do NOT e-mail me or call me if you CANNOT afford this... and afford it NOW! I have no time to fiddle faddle around with "time kickers". I'm the "real" deal so don't contact me unless you are too!

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


P.S.	

Remember I said the doctor made me normal... NOT... inadequate? Listen, if you have anything to do with those penis enlargement e-mails, please stop sending them to me right now.

And, stop sending them to all my friends too. Especially my female friends. (It confuses them.)

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## An Apology

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/ac_an_apology.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I owe many of you a big apology.

A short time ago, I wrote a one-page newsletter that appeared in an envelope icon titled "The Shortest [And Most Valuable] Newsletter Gary Halbert Has Ever Written!" Inside that envelope there was a message that said I had a great website secret which I didn't want to transmit over the Internet. I said if any of my readers wanted to know this secret, they had to send me their "snail mail" address... and... I, in return, would send them "the secret" by snail mail.

Well, it saddens me to say, I am unable to do just that. You see, so many thousands of readers sent me their snail mail addresses, I couldn't keep up with the sheer volume. I was able to mail out a few hundred but, so many readers continued sending me their snail mail addresses, it's not humanly possible for me to keep up with this project.

As I've written before, Theresa's #1 priority has switched from taking care of me and our business to taking care of her terminally-ill father. Under those trying conditions, I couldn't possibly ask her to get this mailing out.

I swear to you, I was not trying to "trick" anyone into sending me their snail mail address. I also swear to you, if you were one of my readers who sent me their snail mail address, I am keeping it under lock and key and will never make it available to anyone.

But don't despair. Just because I can't send you this secret through snail mail, does NOT mean I am not going to hold up to my promise and share the secret with you. I am going to "give it up" but through anothermeans. Because of everything we're going through, I have no choice but to post this secret on my website.

Now, by the time you read this e-mail, the secret may not yet be posted. But, it very soon will be.

And there is something I must tell you in this e-mail which I should have explained along with the secret. I should have also told you to use this secret between New Year's Day and Thanksgiving Day. After Thanksgiving, the U.S. Postal Service is so clogged with mail, no savvy marketers would dream of using snail mail during this period of time. But, for the other 11 months of the year, this secret is enormously valuable.

Once again, please accept my profound apologies. But, right now, trying to keep up with everything without "My Theresa" by my side... makes me feel like a one-legged man in an ass-kicking contest.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


P.S.	

This apology will also appear also on my website.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Shortest [And Most Valuable] Newsletter Gary Halbert Has Ever Written!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/shortest_and_most.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Have you ever wondered if I tell all my marketing secrets in my newsletters and at my seminars? Actually... I do not.

But, I have decided to reveal to some of you perhaps my most important secret to making huge profits. Nobody has ever told you about this... because...

Nobody Else Knows About It!

There's just one catch. I cannot reveal this secret online. I have to send it to you via snail mail.

If you've been reading my newsletters for any length of time, I think you know by now, I never misuse your e-mail address. Nor do I let anyone else use your e-mail address for any reason whatsoever. By the same token, if you give me your snail mail address, it will be safe with me. I will consider it as sacred as I do your e-mail address.

And, as soon as you give me your snail mail address, I will mail you a letter containing this huge secret you can use to make tons of money. And, I will reveal this secret...

For Free!

Like I said, you will never get this piece of information from anybody else. Nobody else knows it. So, if you are interested, simply e-mail me your name and snail mail address to my personal e-mail address which is NoSexGary@aol.com. By the way, in the "Subject Line" of your e-mail to me, please write "Snail Mail Address" so I won't mistake your e-mail for spam and delete it without reading it.

Thanks for reading this rather long message.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


P.S.	

This is, without doubt, the most profitable thing you will ever learn about how to increase website profits.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Missing Link To Website Profits

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/azdx_internetsecrets.html

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

At the risk of ruining my reputation for modesty, I am going to make a rather bold statement...

I Now Honestly Believe
I Know More About How To
Increase The Profit Of A Website
Than Anyone Else On Earth!

I'm not kidding. I really do believe that is an accurate statement. Here's a true story: I was visited recently by a man named Ed Dale from Australia. (He has since moved to England.) Ed is one of those very rare people who started a profitable dot.com company and then... SOLD IT FOR CASH... at the peak of the frenzy. Then, Ed took the cash from the sale of his dot.com company and made some shrewd investments and even shrewder business decisions. And so, his fortune has now multiplied to double digit millions.

Ed has now started to create websites and has set out to learn everything he can about how to make those websites more profitable. He told me recently every marketing book he has read, every audio or video tape he has listened to or watched, every seminar he has attended, all pointed him to me, Sir Gary of Halbert, as the best copywriter and direct marketer online today.

Naturally, I would be the last to deny that... so... when Ed rang me up on the blower (that's Australian meaning 'he called me on the phone') I invited him to visit me in Miami. I learned a lot about Ed during our visit. One of the things I learned about him is, he always attempts to seek out and then work with only the very top people in their chosen fields of expertise. Another (of many) things I learned was Ed had five operating websites... and... each of those websites was as different from each other as they could possibly be.

I'm listing them for you here:

www.massagetherapysuccess.com
www.weddingplanningsecrets.com
www.troutfishingsecrets.com
www.pianoisfun.com
www.fraps.com

That's quite a unique mixture of websites, wouldn't you agree? I can't imagine how any five websites could be more different in content than those five are from each other.

Anyway, Ed and I chatted for a bit and then I told him about how I know more about increasing website profits than anyone else in the world. And, we made a dinner bet. The bet was, I could show him how to make a simple change to each of his websites which would exponentially increase his profits... immediately... on each of the sites. If I failed, I'd owe him dinner. If I won, he'd owe me dinner. I also told him this was only one of about a dozen website profit breakthroughs I had made...

And Nobody Else In The World
Knows About Them!

Let us mush on: Ed returns to Australia and makes the change I told him to make to all five of his websites. Soon, he calls me: "Well mate, it looks like I owe you a dinner!"

"Why is that?" I asked, "did my suggestion work out for you?"

"Work out? Bloody oath mate! What you told me to do increased the profitability of every one of my five websites... immediately! The lowest profit increase was 300% and the highest was about 1,000%!" (NOTE: I'll bet you a dollar to a donut that anybody who visits those sites will not be able to detect the profit-making secret I had Ed incorporate in them. It's something so sophisticated... even though it's elegantly simple... it's invisible to almost everybody.)

Anyway, I then reminded him this was only one of about a dozen secrets I have developed to increase website profitability. And, that if he would come to my Miami seminar (the one I just finished), he could learn the other secrets.

What Ed did amazed me...

First, he moved from Australia to London to be closer to me and the United States. Then, he DID attend my seminar... and... he was one of the guest speakers.

Ed Dale and I have now made a business arrangement. I am no longer for hire as a copywriter. I won't take on a single client. All I'm going to do from now on is work with Ed, keep writing my newsletter and, finish up a few unfinished marketing chores I owe a few people.

By the way, this seminar had fewer attendees than any other seminar I have ever given since I started writing my newsletter back in 1986. It was kept very small deliberately because my #1 Trusty Assistant Theresa couldn't be there to help me. She is now living with her dying father and is serving him as his primary caregiver.

So, to keep the seminar small, I only notified a fraction of my readers about it. And, it turns out, a lot of those I did notify were struggling with the loss of their homes and/or businesses caused by Hurricane Isabel. Others lucky enough not to lose their physical structures, had to deal with the loss of their electricity, phone service, computer access, fax lines, etc.

I actually had more website experts to help me with the seminar than I had seminar attendees. So, you know what we did? We gave each attendee a great deal of personal attention which would have been impossible under any other circumstances. And, we had the luxury of making this the most informative, useful, personal... and... intense... Internet/website seminar in all of recorded history.

For example, I had every single attendee tell me all about his or her website or, the website they were getting ready to put on the web. Then, I told every one of them... in exact detail... what they could do to improve the profitability of their website.

I told a few of them they should change the product they were selling. You see, many people believe the Internet is SO BIG, you can use it to sell anything. That's not true. Not if you want to make really BIG profits. If you want to make really serious money on the Internet, you have to limit yourself to a surprisingly small category (percentage-wise) of products or services you offer for sale on your site.

As I write this, I have at my side, a folder telling me (in rank order) the top 10,000 websites in the world. If your website is not among the top 10,000 sites, you are not making really, really serious money with your website. You might be making what you consider a lot but, you will be missing out on the truly humongous fungolas you could be raking in. So, one of the most important secrets I revealed at my seminar was...

How To Select A Product Or Service That...
When Sold Via The Internet... Will...
Almost Guarantee You Make HUGE Profits!

And, why not? It costs the same amount of time and energy to sell a really profitable product or service as it does to create and maintain a site which only makes peanuts.

So, let's say you are selling one or more of those hugely-profitable products or services on your website. What is the first thing you should pay a lot of attention to? I am literally amazed no one else teaches this! Can you guess what it is?

It's The NAME
Of Your Website!


Come closer. Pay attention here. Everybody in marketing with even half-a-brain knows the HEADLINE is the most important part of any ad. And, don't you get it that when it comes to websites... the NAME of your site... IS is the headline?!

People pay thousands and thousands to get the top position when someone types a search phrase into a search engine which relates to what they are selling.

So, there they are, right in the top ten results of a website search... with... a few poorly written sentences describing their site (written in blue) and the name of their website hidden at the bottom of the few lines of copy describing their site.

Know this: Burn it into your mind: Those first few sentences which describe your site... plus... the actual NAME of your site are, by far...

The Most Important Words
On Your Entire Website!

Look, when people type a search word or a search phrase into a search engine, they do NOT necessarily click on the sites which pop up in the first three or four results. No. What they do is, they glance down the list of those top ten sites and read the brief descriptions of each site... and... the name of each website.

The one they really click on first (and you DO want it to be yours) is the one with the most enticing copy describing the website... and... the most enticing website name.

It's like they are glancing at headlines in a newspaper to see what stories they want to read. And, most website descriptive copy and website names seem to have been written by marketing imbeciles. Listen, these words are, by far, the most important words on your entire website. More thought and effort should go into these few lines of descriptive copy (and name) of your website than everything else that is on your site... combined! It's so simple, I feel like I'm writing to morons that I even have to explain it... but... I'm going to explain it anyway...

If The Few Lines Of Descriptive Copy About Your Website
(And The Name Of Your Website) Are NOT Written To Grab
A Great Deal Of Immediate Attention... Nobody... Will Click
On The Link And Read Your Website... And... Therefore...
NOBODY WILL BUY ANYTHING FROM YOU!

I don't know how to make it any clearer. If you cannot understand the obvious truth of what I have just written, you are truly beyond all hope.
Now, for many of you, I am going to make your day.

I suspect what I am going to write next is going to put smiles on the faces of people all over the world.

Remember how I wrote a few newsletters ago about how I was NOT going to be selling the tapes of my Internet/website seminar? I was not lying to you. Not intentionally anyway.

But, when I got to the seminar, I was pulled aside by my good friend Carlos Duran and, he told me he had made arrangements for the hotel (The Embassy Suites) to audio tape the entire seminar. He told me he wanted to have tapes of the event, even if it was just for archival reasons. What the heck? I didn't see how it could hurt anything. And then, something strange happened: About one-third of the way through the seminar, I realized this was turning out to be the best seminar on how to make website profits in all of history.

And so, I have decided I will sell the tapes. Not only that, I made another decision:

I Made The Decision
To Sell The Tapes At A
Dirt-Cheap, Low Price!

This presented me with a particular problem. Here I was, standing in front of a small group of people who had paid nearly $6,000 to attend my seminar plus all their hotel and travel expenses. And, three of these people had come all the way from Singapore. Do you know how much it costs to fly round trip from Singapore? I just looked it up. It's somewhere in the vicinity of $3,000.00 or more.

Maybe some of the attendees would not have come to the seminar... if... they had known in advance they would be able to buy the tapes... and especially... if they knew the dirt-cheap price I was going to charge for the tapes.

But, there was no way they could have known any of that because... I didn't know I was going to do this myself. So, I decided to make a little "pitch" to the attendees. This is what I said:

 	

"Look, this is turning out to be a truly spectacular seminar. So spectacular, in fact, I want to share it with the world by selling the audio tapes of this event. But, I can see how many of you would resent that after paying so much to be here in person. So, I want to make a deal with you.

"First, I will give you some secret website techniques for making profits that I had already decided I wasn't going to share with anybody.

"Secondly, right here and right now, I will change the agenda of this seminar so I can go over everybody's website and tell you personally and individually how to immediately increase the profits of your site.

"And, if that's not enough, I will give you the right to call me about any of your website problems for the next 18-months and I will do my best to help you... without any charge!"

	 

Everybody in that room LOVED my proposal. So, guess what? If you want to, you are going to be able to buy the tapes... and... you are going to be able to buy them at far less than what my seminar attendees had to pay. I have reasons for doing this and I will explain those reasons at the end of this letter.

But now, for the first time in my life, I'm going to do something I've never done before. Instead of me writing a sales letter to entice you to buy the tapes of this seminar... I'm going to let my attendees do it for me!


Below are the actual letters I received from the people who attended my live seminar. Give them a quick read and then decide for yourself if my seminar was just maybe the absolute best seminar on making website profits anyone has ever experienced:

Dear Gary,

  I realized what I hate most: Flying in an airplane for 20 hours. But if you are going to put on another seminar with a $5,000 price tag, guess what? I would still go on a dumb plane and fly 20 hours to attend your seminar! Here is why:

I learned about a drug (which was completely unknown to me) that quite possibly, will make me a million dollars within the next 24-months.


I learned your secret on how to (at least) double my website profits.


I got to meet some great minds in marketing.


I learned how to place ads in newspapers at a huge discount off rate cards.


I just learned about the most important thing I can ever do for my business.

   I've read in your newsletter, "much of what I say is timely, but much of what I say is also timeless." And what I learned in this Internet seminar is timeless.

Terry Ryan
Singapore




Dear Gary,

   As a long time reader of "The Gary Halbert Letter," I thought I had an idea of what to expect from this seminar.

   Boy, was I wrong!

   On Day 1, I received at least two ideas that I put into action... THAT SAME NIGHT!

   Day 2 taught me more about copywriting by listening to real-world critiques than I ever had listening to tapes or reading books.

   Day 3 is where the money is for my business. I learned one strategy to use in my Internet marketing efforts that will GUARANTEE a 500% increase in my business. I want to thank you for allowing John Reese the opportunity to share this tactic.

   In all, I am walking away from this experience a wiser man. My gratitude for this cannot be expressed in words.

Bill Kent
Houston, Texas

Dear Gary,

   I got turned onto Gary Halbert when I was 23 years old. I'm now 25 and have made over One Hundred Thousand Dollars using the insider secrets given to me by Gary. After this Internet seminar, I'm ready to make 5 million dollars in the next two years.

   The future of making money on the Internet has just had the door blown off it... and... Gary Halbert is leading the charge behind the captain's chair of an MA1 mobile tank fleet. Thanks Gary for giving my finances air in a world drowning with money problems.

Denice Cantaloni
Miami, FL

Dear Gary,

   I've been to many of your seminars. However, this one was by far the best! After having read at least a dozen books alleging to teach me how to make money with a website, your course this weekend taught more proven, simple and workable keys to actually DOING that (and easily) than all those books combined! This knowledge could be worth a literal fortune in Internet profits for most anyone who applies it. Thank you so very much.

Mark Gordon
Seattle, WA

Dear Gary,

   As experienced Internet marketers, my team and I didn't come to this workshop looking for the basics... but... came for those unexpected points of view (Gary's hallmark) which spawns two or three important new ideas. You gave us five or six. As always, Gary's workshops deliver.

Gerald Ledford
Albuquerque, NM

Dear Gary,

   Your October, 2003 Internet/website seminar was phenomenal!

   I'm just starting out in the Internet/website business and your seminar provided me all of the essential tools to make money in the Internet... including how to write a winning sales letter, secrets to setting up a profitable website and much, much more.

   Within the next ten days, I'll have my website making money... and I'll be on my way to a very successful Internet business. Thanks a million.

Robert Brown
Boston, MA

Dear Gary,

  "Thank you" seems thin... what I want is something that has more muscle... something with "heft"... something... something GRAND! What do you say to someone who has been so generous... not only with the invitation... but with the presentation?

  People have asked me, 'was it worth it?' I tell them that I saw someone who was tops in his field deliver with total generosity everything he had. I had the privilege to be in he room with his peers, to be treated as one of them! "What? WHAT? Was it worth it? Are you NUTS?" I say, "OF COURSE IT WAS WORTH IT! Those three days have changed my life. What I learned is multi-layered, and it will be percolating through my being for a long time as I digest the content."

   Really, "thank you", (as well meaning as it is) does not say what I feel. The only thing I can think to do is, "do" what you taught. To go out there and work and someday say, "Gary Halbert taught me that." I just want to live up to the opportunity you gave us.

   Jackie, who had no thought of marketing anything is now fired up and ready to go. In changing my life, you have inadvertently changed hers. NOW... there is the greatest gift of all.

   Really Gary, you are the guru of words... What Can I Say? Muchicimas Gracias! Vaya con Dios! Just know, you will always be there until the last beat of my heart. Darn, I always seem to get mushy even though I don't want to... I'll have to work on that.

Bernice Edwards
Portland, OR

Dear Gary,

   I have learned more about making money online in three days with you... than... I have the past four years paying through the nose following the so-called Internet gurus.

Naomi Walker
Farmingdale, NY

Dear Gary,

   I have gained invaluable insights on copywriting in this seminar. And your simple tips on how to make my website more profitable will definitely work!

Toni Yong
Singapore

Dear Gary,

   This has been the most beneficial seminar I have ever attended. I have learned so many tips and strategies for marketing...

My Brain Is Throbbing!

   The seminar was excellent in itself but, talking to the other attendees was like participating in mini-seminars and mentoring by experts in the field.

   This seminar has been a giant "payback" for all the good deeds I have done in my life.

Jackie Gibson
Portland, OR




Dear Gary,

   I came to your seminar hoping to walk away with one really good idea. Instead, I am walking away with... 43 incredibly great ideas!

Lorenzo Vaughn
Toronto, Canada




Dear Gary (and to anyone else who is reading this),

   I've attended many of Gary's seminars over the years. The truth is, this web seminar was the very best if you are serious about making your fortune on the web. Without the tapes, you are almost guaranteed to fail. With them... the only way you can fail is... if you don't listen to them!

Kevin King
Grand Rapids, MI




Dear Gary,

   I have a background in anthropology... which means... I have almost no knowledge of marketing. After attending Gary Halbert's seminar, my learning curve has skyrocketed.

Anita Kirkpatrick
Phoenix, AZ




Dear Gary,

   Thanks for all the copywriting tips. Especially the secrets you shared about bullets, headlines, the best time and place to write copy, and the one secret that was worth the cost of the seminar... what special process you should use to accept orders that will double your own orders.

   Automatically include my name for sign up at your next seminar. Oh, and would you do me a favor? Please, please, please, do not make tapes of this seminar available to the public.

Gary McClure
Jacksonville, FL




Dear Gary,

   No one can show you how direct marketing techniques can be used to make tons of money on the Internet better than Gary Halbert.

Geoffrey Allen
Albuquerque, NM




Dear Gary,

   Finding the real thing in a world which has learned to accept the "fair" copy as the norm is a mind expanding experience. Gary Halbert really "is" the man he is reputed to be. His presentation is sharp and to the point. He condenses the most pertinent points into the time allotted without crowding the ideas. He gives individual attention without demeaning the questioner. As a teacher, he has the gift to communicate in a way the student can learn. I am taking the lessons learned back with me in the full confidence I can use them to remake my business life. I will be at his next seminar and I will continue to read his newsletters for the best nuggets I know are there. Quite simply, he is the best.

Bonita Evans
Los Angeles, CA




Dear Gary,

   I walked into your seminar a little nervous... I was a true web virgin.


   But now, I have all the tools I need to set up a profitable website including... how to find a profitable product to sell... how to set up a search page... how to test the site to see if it will be profitable (and for less than $195!)... and how to craft a compelling sales letter to put on the site!

   Thanks for everything. You gave me a heck of a lot more than I expected!

George Cochran
Tampa, FL




Dear Gary,

   I expected to learn enough to get me off to a jump start but, with just a couple of your ideas... on the first day... I realized that I'm better than I thought I was! And when the best in the world says, "That's damn good copy," that gives me an incredible amount of confidence.

   I was also glad to get the technical expertise of John Reese. Your addition of John to the line-up made this experience a complete package for me.

   I know now that I got more out of your seminar than I could have imagined, let alone expected.

Gill Thompson
Minneapolis, MN




Dear Gary,

   Even if you find Gary's website extremely helpful (as I do) you gotta hear him! Some of the things he reveals are tested and proven... but are so cutting-edge and counter-intuitive... that you have to hear the questions, the objections, and the reasons why.

   His comments about the ordering process are profound, and just as I describe above.

Robert Jones
Boston, MA




Dear Gary,

   Firstly, a big thank you! I am so glad that I flew 20 plus hours from Singapore to attend this seminar.

   Many things I learned can be implemented immediately... which... I am sure will boost my revenue tremendously. This is the most value-added seminar I have attended so far.

   I will definitely want to be at your next seminar.

Lee Canton
Singapore




As you've just read, all 20 people who attended my seminar thought it was well worth the time and money they spent to attend. But, truth be told, I didn't pull it off alone. The other speakers included Carlos Duran about how you should not work merely to increase the size of your bank account, but that... also... your work should be something you care passionately about. He also made the very valuable point about how you should put the same amount of passion you do into making money into your family and your health. Plus, he explained how, when he first met me three years ago, he was a personal trainer struggling to make the rent... and how... his association with me (he lives right here in Miami) has changed his personal and financial circumstances enormously for the better.

Another of my speakers was "Doberman Dan" Gallapoo who lives in the Escazu section of San Jose, Costa Rica. He actually lives within walking distance of 70% of the online sports betting casinos in the entire world. Online betting is legal in Costa Rica and, it pisses off the government to no end. Earlier this year, the government tried to shut down the online casinos by making it almost impossible for U.S. citizens to use their credit cards to place their bets. The U.S. government has NOT succeeded in this endeavor but, for a while, they put a real hurting on all the online casinos. So, what the casinos did was to get creative and discovered several ingenious ways to get money from people who can't use a credit card. You never know: Maybe one day something negative will happen to your merchant account and you will no longer have the ability to process credit cards... so... one of these options that Dan reveals at my seminar (which was discovered by the online sports books) could, quite literally...

Save Your Business!

Dan also revealed a "connection" to someone who may (for real) be able to solve any merchant account problems you might be having.

Another guest speaker was Joachim DePosada. Joachim (pronounced Wa-keem) is my all-time favorite public speaker. He once gave me what I consider the most important piece of business advice I ever got in my entire life. (You'll hear me discuss it when you listen to the seminar tapes.)

Joachim travels all over the world and teaches Fortune 500 companies the REAL secrets a person needs to know to become successful. He has written a new book called, "How To Survive The Piranhas" and I am honored he has included an entire section about me in it. He practically gives this book away compared to what it's worth. Find it on the 'net and get yourself a copy.

And then, as I mentioned previously, Ed Dale also spoke at my seminar. Ed is one of those people who really pisses me off... because... he not only makes tons of money... he KEEPS it! (This is a trick I've never learned.) Anyway, Ed explained all the secrets he uses to make website profits to my attendees. And, I can say with 100% honesty, what you will hear him reveal on my seminar tapes is so incredibly valuable, you should hide your head in shame if you don't use what he teaches to make more money than any sane person can possibly spend!

And remember in the testimonials, some of my attendees mentioned John Reese? Well, remember at the beginning of this letter I wrote "I Now Honestly Believe I Know More About How To Increase The Profit Of A Website Than Anyone Else On Earth!"? Shit. After meeting and listening to John Reese, I think honesty dictates that, in actuality, that distinction has to go to John Reese.

He's one of those guys who, until recently (like John Carlton) has preferred to stay very low profile and under the radar. The rumors I am now hearing about him are that he is the top entrepreneur on the entire Internet. When John (Reese) started talking to my attendees and revealed his secrets, it was like having Tiger Woods taking a personal interest in you, taking you under his wing and teaching you to play golf.

And there you have it. A rather complete description of my latest seminar and what you will learn about making website profits when you listen to those audio tapes. I'm going to tell you how you can get those tapes... and... why I'm selling them... so cheap... in just a moment. But first, I want to discuss something else.

You know, there's something I've noticed about every successful marketer whenever I have visited them in their houses. I've noticed...

They Are All Information Junkies!

They can't get enough. They are just like me. If you ever visit the home of a truly pro marketer, you'll always find a room dedicated to housing information products he has purchased over the years. Hundreds of books, dozens of sets of audio tapes, box after box of video cassettes, numerous magazine articles, newspaper articles and EVERYTHING he can get his hands on which might help him be a better marketer. Here's the truth:

The Top Guys Never Think They Know It All...
And... They NEVER Stop Learning!

In fact, you know where I'm gonna be in November? I'm gonna be at someone else's seminar! I'm gonna be at someone else's seminar on websites! And, guess what? I'm NOT going there to teach. No, I'm going as a regular attendee... to learn. And, if you are a really serious person about making website profits, I suggest you go also. I'll tell you how to find out all the details of this seminar (which is going to be held in San Francisco) right after I tell you how to get your greedy, little hands on a set of audio tapes of my seminar.

But first, I want to tell you why I'm selling my tapes so cheaply.

First, I didn't know until the last minute I was going to be taping the seminar... and so... a small portion was not captured on the tapes. For example, we started the seminar by having everyone in the room introduce themselves and tell us a little about their businesses. This portion was not caught on the audio tapes.

There are a few other bits and pieces we didn't catch on the tapes... but... we did get just about everything of value... and... the audio is very clear.

Secondly, we did not video tape the seminar which, in my opinion, enhances your learning experience.

Thirdly, you will not be getting the kind of individual attention I was able to give each of the attendees.

And lastly, you will not be eligible for my individual assistance during the next 18-months with your website problems. I made that promise to my attendees... for them... to allow me to sell the tapes of the seminar... and... feel good about allowing me to do so.

OK, as you know, the attendees had to pay $5,985.00 to be at the seminar. They also had to pay all their travel and hotel expenses. That means, in some cases (like the attendees who came from Singapore) they had to shell out over $9,000.00 to be there.

So, here's what I've decided to charge for the audio tapes. Exactly one-tenth (1/10) of the price of the seminar... not counting... hotel and other travel expenses. That means... you can buy these utterly-priceless tapes for only $598.50.

There are several ways you can order these tapes. The first way is to write your check in the amount of $598.50 made payable to "Cherrywood Publishing" and send it to:

Cherrywood Publishing
3101 S.W. 34th Ave. #905-467
Ocala, FL 34474

If you do that, we will send the tapes to you immediately by First-Class mail. (By the way, even though Theresa is out of state helping her Dad, there is someone else in Ocala who picks up the mail daily.)

Or, if you prefer to order using a credit card, you can do it by fax or phone. To fax your order, write the words "Seminar Tape Order" on a sheet of paper and fax it to (352) 861-1665 along with the following information:

1) 	Your name as it appears on your credit card
2) 	Your credit card number
3) 	The expiration date
4) 	Your BILLING address for that credit card
5) 	The 'security code' from your credit card
 	
a) 	If using Visa or MasterCard, the 'security code' are the last three digits on the BACK of your credit card in your signature panel
b)	If using American Express, the 'security code' are the four digits on the FRONT of your credit card above your credit card number

6) 	The shipping address where you want the tapes sent

But, like I said, you can also phone in your order. Normally, I'd have you call my office and give your information directly to Theresa. But, since she's not in the office, you can call me directly... and... I will take your order. My PRIVATE telephone numbers (which you promise NOT to give to anyone else... unless they want to order, of course) are:

Home: (786) 924-3918	Cell: (352) 895-0689

 

Also, since I'm expecting to get a lot of calls, if both those lines are busy, you can call my friend, Carlos Duran on his cell phone at (786) 390-9100 and he will take your order.

If you try to call and you can't get through, please do NOT leave a voicemail message. Instead, e-mail me at...

NoSexGary@aol.com

and leave your telephone number. I will then return your call as fast as humanly possible. Also, please write "Seminar Tape Order" in the Subject Line of your e-mail. That way, I won't make a mistake and think I've received some kind of spam e-mail and automatically delete it.



 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert
(temporarily the world's most exhausted guru)




P.S.	

If you decide to go to San Francisco to the same seminar I will be attending, say "hello" to me if you see me in the crowd. You can find all the details about that seminar by clicking on the link below:

http://www.MasterMindSeries.com

That's it for now. I'm gonna crank up the "No Mercy" and take a little cruise.

Peace.





Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright ï¿½ 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Special Report

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/azdedislei_specialreport.html

From:
South Of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Here is your reward for recommending my website to your friends. It's called... "The Three Biggest Secrets To Making Huge Website Profits" and I'm going to get right to it.

The first thing I want to tell you is...

Sell Stuff People Want To Buy!

There you are. Six words that will solve 85% of the most "so-called" marketing problems in the world. If you were to analyze the most searched for words on the Internet, you would come up with words like sex, big tits, Cameron Diaz, Kobe, Britney Spears, etc. These words represent things people are curious about, want to read about, "the flavor of the day", etc. They do not necessarily represent stuff people want to buy.

Think about the Yellow Pages of your phone book for a moment. Did you ever feel an idle curiosity about dentists or carpet cleaners or transmission repairs and go to those sections of the Yellow Pages and settle down for an afternoon of leisurely reading?

I bet not. I bet the only time you looked up "Carpet Cleaners" is when you needed your carpets cleaned. I bet you only looked under "Dentists" when you had a tooth that was hurting or needed some other type of dental work. Transmission repair? You probably only went to that section when your car was having transmission problems.

The Yellow Pages is a big book that tells you where to look for...

Solutions!

You won't find Britney Spears or Brad Pitt listed there. Thus, a key to making HUGE Internet profits is... to think of it as a MONSTER YELLOW PAGES book... that is also stuffed with zillions of other things... which are only of curiosity value... not solutions.

Suppose someone types "yeast infection" or "urinary tract infection" into a search engine. Do you think those people woke up one day with an insatiable desire to satisfy their curiosity about those subjects? No, of course not. They typed in "yeast infection" most likely because they had one and wanted to get rid of it.

By the way, if you do type in "yeast infection" the top sponsored site is headlined "Stop Your Yeast Infection Now!"

Bullseye!

That's exactly what the person who typed in the phrase "yeast infection" wants to know: How to stop that damn yeast infection!

Same with "urinary tract infection". By far, the most profitable thing to sell via the Internet is...

Solutions!

And, the more desperate he is for the solution, the more he will pay for it. Take a person with a truly painful toothache. Show that person a painting of the Mona Lisa or take him to the Grand Canyon. Do you think he gives a shit about the beauty before his eyes? Not a chance. All he cares about is...

He Wants His Damn Tooth
To Stop Hurting!

Put him in a roomful of sexy, naked, turned-on women. He won't even notice them. At least until that tooth stops hurting.

Start talking to him about how he can triple his income by making a five minute change to his advertising. Think he cares?

But, if you offer him, immediate relief from tooth pain... then...

Aha! You've Got Him!

Here's a very valuable tip: When you're just starting out in marketing, don't even start selling people stuff they want. Start by selling them... what they have to have. Sell them solutions to problems they've got to solve...

Before They Can Even Think
About Anything Else!

Don't have a product? Good! That leaves you free to sell the best product of all which is... information!

If your tooth is killing you, wouldn't you like to spend $10.00 for an e-book of only two pages which can be delivered to you immediately... that tells you... how to stop that tooth pain instantly? Hey Bubba, not only is that exactly what you want, you ain't gonna spend nuthin' on nuthin' else until you get it!

Look, in marketing (except for the LMS* finer details) there are only three things you have to worry about:

1.	Your product!
2.	Your sales pitch!
3.	Your "delivery system" for your sales pitch!

I've already covered #1 (your product) in detail. Mainly, if you're not already married to some other product, sell a paper and ink solution to someone... who has a problem... they HAVE to have solved.

Next comes...

The Sales Pitch!

People are very confused (almost imbeciles) about how to create a sales pitch. As a general rule, the more you tell, the more you sell. Your website sales pitches should be nothing but a long, easy-to-read SALES LETTER. Do not clutter it up with graphics. Do not use animation. Do not try to make it look professional. And for God's sake, do not clutter it up with bullshit they can click on that tells "who we are" or "our mission statement" or "our goals"... or... "our history".

Nobody but you cares about that garbage. Tell them about your solution. Use black ink against a yellow background. Use the letters on my website as your guide to how they should look. And, put EVERYTHING into your sales (oops, I meant website) letters.

Look at it this way: Suppose God came down from heaven and he was feeling playful. He picked out 110 women (or men)... and... one of those people was the person with whom you were going to spend the rest of your life. God refused to let you see any of them. Not even a video, a photo or a drawing. He refused to let you talk to any of them. He refused to let you hire a detective to check them out.

Nope. What He made all of them do is write a letter telling you about themselves. How much detail would you want in that letter? Would you want it to say...

"Hi. I'm Bunny. I'm a Gemini
and I like cats and walking
on the beach. Hope you choose me."

Get real! That's NOT what you would want to know about the person you are going to spend the rest of your life with. No. What you would want to know is...

Everything!

And, so it is when people are spending their money. If it's any kind of significant expenditure at all... or... if it's something they know very little about... you can't tell them too much!

And listen: Try to make your product the best on the market. The secret is research. If you are selling info on yeast infections, do enough research to become the world's leading expert on the subject. (It probably won't take much.) Give them a lot of info they DON'T already know. Incorporate this almost-unknown info into "blind" teaser copy in your website letter. Like this...

*	Three common foods that (if eaten twice weekly) will 100% guarantee you will NEVER have another yeast infection!
*	Why you canNOT ever use an air purifier in your home if you want to avoid yeast infections!
*	A popular household pet that is responsible for 53.7% of all yeast infections!

OK, I just made those up... but... if I spent a few hours doing serious research, I am dead certain I could come up with little-known facts just as appealing.

Finally, do NOT let your prospect order online. Only accept TELEPHONE orders. And, only let them call your regular area code number. Never ask them to call an 800 or an 888 toll-free number. It has now been proven that twice as many people will call a POTS number (Plain Old Telephone Service) as will call a toll-free number.

Why? Your guess is as good as mine. Maybe it has something to do with the idea that calling a toll-free number will get you connected to a high-pressure telephone salesman... whereas... (at least in the prospect's mind) that is less likely to happen if they call a POTS number.

Also, calling a POTS number tends to give people the feeling they could get someone on they phone if they ever needed help... whereas... calling a toll-free number is more likely to connect you to "Voicemail Hell".

Phone orders only? Are you kidding? Isn't the Internet set up for anonymous, ease-of-ordering? Don't people prefer to use "shopping carts" and place an order right over the 'Net?

No! No! No! No! No!

And, I can prove it to you. Here's something everyone who is reading this has done dozens (if not hundreds) of times. You're on an airplane. You're bored. You pick up the 'in flight' magazine. You go to the skymall section where, some of the neatest products in the world are featured. Great products. Great photos. Great copy.

Look, here's a Swiss Army knife that is also a cell phone and a compass! Damn, you've been waiting for something like this for years. You rip out the page, stuff it in your briefcase and decide to buy it as soon as you get home or to your hotel.

Looky here! A watch that tells you the day, date and time in three time zones... plus... it tells you when your girlfriend is ovulating which means she will be at her peak of horniness! Talk about a "must-have!"

You rip out that page also.

Lordy! Here's a shaving mirror you can use in the shower! Gotta have that... so... you rip out that page too.

Holy shit! Look at this: It's the Ipen. It's little more than 5ï¿½ inches long and is the world's first combination ballpoint, view finder digital camera, a web cam and a stylus for your PDA. Discreet buttons (which translates to impossible to see) let you seek a specific function. The built-in 8MB memory can hold up to 400 images or connect directly to a USB interface to use as a PC web camera!

All For Only $149.00!

Think Iï¿½m kidding? See page 19 of your free copy of the Summer SKYMALL magazine.

You rip that page out and, before youï¿½re finished 7 more pages containing stuff you just canï¿½t resist. The plane finally lands. Itï¿½s a routine flight so you are only 5ï¿½ hours late. You fight your way through the airport and go to the rent-a-car counter. After 32,718 questions, they give you the keys to a sardine can on wheels and youï¿½re on your way. 7ï¿½ hours later you find you find your rental car and drive around for 3 hours until you find your hotel which, of course, was only ï¿½ mile from the airport.

You check in. Youï¿½re a non-smoker but, they mistakenly give you a room for smokers. You change rooms. But, the second room is not made up yet. You sit in the lobby for 2ï¿½ hours watch CNN vomit out the same news stories every 15 minutes.

Finally your room is ready. You carry your stuff upstairs and discover your plastic electronic key doesnï¿½t work. You trundle back down to the front desk and they apologize and re-mooglacize your key for you. You go back upstairs and this time, your key works.

You, being the anal-retentive guy you are, hang up all your clothes that are hangable, put the rest in drawers and neatly arrange your personal grooming stuff in the bathroom.

You call home. You tell your honey it was a routine trip. She tells you the water heater has broken, flooded the basement and the water is only 1ï¿½ feet away from your living room floor. The plumber is on his way over, but he wants $350 an hour for having to make a call at 1:30 a.m.. Your son, Josh came home with a nose ring and a tattoo that says ï¿½Hockey Players Donï¿½t Have Balls!ï¿½

And, oh yeah. Your boss needs that inventory report by 8:00 a.m. Instead of noonï¿½which meansï¿½you wonï¿½t get any sleep tonite.

You talk to your boss the next day and he has scheduled 7 extra appointments for you.

All of which translates to this: Since you got off that plane, 110,000 things have captured your attentionï¿½andï¿½those pages you tore out of the SKYMALL magazine are forgotten and eventually crumpled and tossed into the ï¿½round fileï¿½ï¿½becauseï¿½

You Donï¿½t Have Enough Time
To Even Get For Yourself
The Stuff You Really Want!

Delay is the death of a sale. When a person has a ï¿½buying urgeï¿½ the ï¿½shelf lifeï¿½ of that urge is about all of about 15 or 20 seconds at most. If they can order by phone and there is a phone handy, chances are good youï¿½ll get the sale.

If not, the chances of you NOT getting the sales are almost 100%!

People donï¿½t like to give up their credit card info over the internet either. Even if they are assured their info is encrypted so thoroughly the NSA couldnï¿½t figure it out.

They will give out their cc info over telephone or on an order coupon. Why? Who knows.

Another thing: Computers are totally 100% unforgiving. You gotta type your ordering info at least three times and, if you hit ONE wrong key, you get an impersonal ï¿½ERRORï¿½ message and you have to do it all over. Scott Haines desperately wanted a $150.00 piece of software. He tried his heart out to order it online but, after 7 error messages, he gave up and ordered a similar piece of software from somewhere else. Know this:

Every A/B Split Test Has Proven That Only
Offering One Option For Ordering Has
Been More Profitable Than
Offering Multiple Options!

And, by far, the option that makes the most money is phone only. Thatï¿½s itï¿½

Phone Only!

Ok, weï¿½ve covered #1 (the product) and #2 (the sales pitch) so, itï¿½s time to move on to #3 (the ï¿½delivery system.ï¿½)

Letï¿½s be clear. When I talk about a ï¿½delivery systemï¿½, Iï¿½m talking about a delivery system for your sales pitch!

Examples of delivery systems for sales pitches are direct mail, newspapers, magazines, match book covers, face-to-face conversations, telephone conversations, radio, television, skywritingï¿½and ï¿½of courseï¿½the weakest delivery system of all which is ï¿½

The Internet!

Why is the Internet the weakest delivery system for a sales pitch? Simply because, all you have to do to ignore an Internet sales pitch is to click ï¿½deleteï¿½. The Internet is the least effective delivery system but, it is also the most efficient.

Let me explain to you the differences between efficient and effective.

Efficient is paddling a canoe up or down a river with a perfect J-stroke. That means with the absolute least energy expenditure, you get the most forward movement of the canoe.

Effectiveness is paddling the canoe the right way (upstream or downstream) on the right river. Letï¿½s say you want to go to the river town of Marietta, Ohio. Youï¿½ve been paddling efficiently for three days upstream the Mississippi River. The only problem isï¿½

Marietta, Ohio Is Located
On The Ohio River!

Doesnï¿½t matter how ï¿½efficientï¿½ you are. What you are doing is efficiently NOT going toward your goal.

However, letï¿½s say you start paddling your canoe upstream from Parkersberg, W.V.A. (where I was born in case anybody cares) and you clumsily (and very inefficiently) paddle your craft about 30 miles upstream which happens to be North.

Guess where you will end up. Hey you got it right, soon (maybe in a few days if you are a really lousy canoe paddler) you will arrive at Marietta, Ohio which used to have the biggest oak tree in the U.S. I wonder if it still does? Probably not, chances are someone has chain-sawed it down and replaced it with a parking lot, a strip mall or a convenience store.

But dammit, no matter how inefficiently you did itï¿½

You Got There!

And those other guys? The ones canoeing super efficiently up the Mississippi. They can be as efficient as humanly possible but, they will NEVER get to Marrieta, Ohio.

Letï¿½s say you email 10 million people using the Internet. Say your selling a pill that will enlarge a manï¿½s penis. You know how many sales you will get? Youï¿½ll be lucky if you get even three. But hey, since emailing three million people costs almost nothing (just for the sake of argument, letï¿½s pretend it did cost ABSOLUTEY NOTHINGï¿½ well thenï¿½letï¿½s say you make 60 dollars profit on every bottle of ï¿½penis pillsï¿½ you sell, since you sold 3 bottles (very efficiently)ï¿½

You Made $180.00

Hot damn! This is exciting, ainï¿½t it?

Now, letï¿½s switch to direct mail. We canï¿½t mail all 10 million at the same time because it costs (roughly) .70 cents to mail a sales letter in the U.S. and, to mail 10 million letters, it would cost $700,000, right?

WRONG!

See, hereï¿½s what you do? You start with a mailing of 1000 letters which cost you $700.00ï¿½and ï¿½letï¿½s say you get a 2% response. By the way, thatï¿½s very realistic if you select your mailing lists carefully.

Anyway, a 2% response is 20 orders per thousand letters mailed. And since your net profit is $60.00 per bottle, thatï¿½s $1,200. So, you take that entire $1,200 and use it to mail more letters. Which yields another 2% response or 32 ordersï¿½which equalsï¿½$1,920 dollars in net profitï¿½which ï¿½you use to mail out even more letters which brings in another 2% or $2,400 in profit which you use to mail about more and more letters which brings in $5,400 in profit which you use to mail more, more and more letters and the profit those letters bring in is used to mailï¿½

Aw hell, you get the idea donï¿½t you?

Doing it like this will take about four months instead of the seven seconds it took you to do it by email. But, there is a slight difference. Your 10 million emails fetched you $180.00 in net profit but, your 10 million direct mail letters made a profit of ï¿½

$11,300,000!

All with a start-up cost of $700.00

Are you beginning to see the difference between being effective and being efficient?

But, can the Internet be made more effective? You bet it can! At least 1,000 times more effectiveï¿½andï¿½thatï¿½s what folks who attend my October seminar are going to learn.

Hope you are there.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"Luddite Personified"

P.S.	

All of this message was written with a ball point pen on a yellow legal pad.

Canï¿½t get much more inefficient than that, can you?

Peace.

_________________

* LMS - Lesser Mortal Shit

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright ï¿½ 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Urgent Message 9/14/03 PLEASE READ IMMEDIATELY!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/urgentmessage.htm

From:
South Of Jewfish Creek
Friday, 8:16 a.m.
September 12, 2003

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I have made a decision that makes me a little sick to my stomach.

Actually, it's a decision that may very well work seriously in your favor. But, it goes against my grain. I am a natural born promoter. And, when I promote something I like to do it BIG TIME! If it's family crests I like to sell them like they have never been sold before.

If it's Tova Cosmetics, I love to be the guy who can take it from minus $20,000.00 per month to a profit of $800,000.00 per month in less than half a year. If it's a diet product, I like to hustle it so hard the owner calls me crying about how the hell is he going to fill all these orders. A guy did that once and, I replied...

"Hey Pal, That's The Kind
Of Problems I Create,
NOT The Kind I Solve!"

But, right now, I'm in a situation where I have to more or less "mute" myself.

You see, Theresa Forti has been my assistant for 14 years. She is the person who makes my life work. Without her, I would drown in a sea of details that would leave me no time to eat, sleep, or go to the bathroom.

Well, as it turns out, she can't be at my October Internet/Website Seminar. And, although it sounds silly, if she's not going to be there, I am afraid to make it a big BLOWOUT seminar. If I do, people will make routine requests of me that will leave me paralyzed. I won't be able to say (as I have for 14 years) "Hey, Theresa, this guy needs blank blank blank. Please take care of him."

Okay, I'm no prophet... but... it looks like Theresa's father has a very realistic chance of passing on to a better life at about the exact time I am holding the October Internet/Website Seminar.

So, she and I have agreed I will have to do this one without her help... and... you have no idea how much that scares me. My ability to handle details is approximately the same as a pig's to solve geometry problems. Hence, I have decided not to go all out in the promotion of this seminar and have several hundred attendees as I had planned. I was going to have the seminar at the Marriott Airport Hotel on LeJeune Road. I canceled that arrangement and now, the seminar is going to be at a more intimate hotel called...

Embassy Suites
3974 NW River Dr
Miami, FL 33142

It has a much smaller conference room and thus, we are strictly limited to a small number of attendees. But, there's no way we are going second class. Everyone gets a free breakfast (cooked to order) free cocktails from 6:30 pm to 7:30 pm, a free shuttle to and from the airport, free use of the hotel gym, and a free copy (hot damn!) of USA Today! We might be going smaller, but, we ARE going first-class.

Anyway, before I go on, I need to switch to another subject. Recently, I sent an e-mail to everyone on my announcement list and said... "If you will recommend my newsletter to five other people (and carbon copy me on the e-mails)... I will... provide you with a free report titled"...

The Three Biggest Secrets
Of Making Huge Website Profits!


Guess what?! So many people recommended me to so many other people... that... when they tried to cc me, my mailbox was almost always...

100% Full!

So, in case anyone got short-changed, I am (at the end of this letter) going to give you a hyperlink you can click on to get the free report. When you read it (if you haven't already) you will learn the most valuable thing ever discovered about increasing website sales... and... get a glimpse why this website seminar is going to make other website seminars look...

Totally Pathetic!

The number of the hotel is (305)634-5000 and, they want everyone who is going to register to do so by the 21st of this month. And, since everything is changing, I'm going to change one of the rules myself.

Forget what I wrote earlier about calling a recorded message. My last letter seems to have panicked a few of the phony website gurus. In fact, I think at least two of them need some serious professional therapy. So, there are a few people...

I Don't Want
At The Seminar!

In any case, here's the new rule: If you want to attend, you have to talk with me for a few minutes first. Don't worry, I won't bite. I just don't want any negative, moronic people to be there because...

They Tend To Dull
The Charisma Of The Room!

Plus, there is a new wrinkle to the seminar. Since I'm being forced to restrain myself in the promotion of this seminar (thus, far fewer attendees) I am going to (right before your eyes)...

Write A Website Free
For Several Of The Attendees!

Here's what I suggest you do: If you haven't read the report titled "The Three Biggest Secrets Of Making Huge Website Profits" please click on the hyperlink (in blue) at the bottom of the page and read the report. After that, IMMEDIATELY send an e-mail to...

NoSexGary@aol.com

...which says something like, "Gary I think I might like to attend your seminar. Here are my phone numbers and the best time to call me."

That's it. I will return your call as soon as humanly possible. We'll have a pleasant talk and decide jointly if attending the seminar would be a good thing for you to do or not. (Please do this again even if you've already sent me your telephone information. Without Theresa, the chances are good I've lost your information anyway.)

But, don't wait. Many people (including myself) often wait until almost the date of the seminar before they sign up to attend. That won't work this time. The hotel insists we give them the name of EVERYONE who will be at the seminar by the 21st of this month.

Actually, you will get more by attending a small, intimate seminar like this... than... a much bigger seminar. But, not me. I will get LESS. And, you know what the worst part of it is?

Nobody Cares!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert
"All Alone In The
Cold Cruel World Without
His Irreplaceable
Assistant, Theresa"


P.S.	

To read my free report, "The Three Biggest Secrets Of Making Huge Website Profits", click here.

Please (if you haven't already) read the report and e-mail me your phone numbers with the best time to call as fast as you can. And, if you decide not to do that, please say a prayer for Theresa and her father. (Actually, that came out wrong. I should have said, please offer up a prayer for them no matter what you decide to do.)

Peace.

Click here to leave your telephone numbers and the best time to call you.

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Money Making Website Secrets You Will Never Learn From Anyone Else

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/moneymakingsecrets.htm

From:
South Of Jewfish Creek
Tuesday, 3:16 p.m.
September 2, 2003

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

If you are interested in making substantial website profits, this will be one of the most important newletters you will ever read.

Hark unto me: A website is defined as a distinct location on the Internet identified by an IP (Internet Provider) address". Here are the number of websites on the Internet during the last few years:

1998	2,851,000
1999	4,882,000
2000	7,399,000
2001	8,745,000
2002	9,040,000
   

The numbers aren't in for 2003 (that's this year in case you are into serious substance abuse) but, I think it's safe to say there are now at least 10,000,000 websites on the Internet, wouldn't you agree?

What's that? You say you don't agree? Well then, why don't you go piss up a rope, you low I.Q. shit weasel? (Lighten up, Buckwheat, I'm just trying to keep your attention.)

Anyway, websites are ranked by how many visitors they get. Yahoo! usually gets more visits than any other website so, most days it is ranked the number one website on the Internet. On most days, Passport.net gets the second most hits so, it is ranked the number two website on the Internet. Actually, today Passport.net is ranked #4. Here, for your edification are the 100 top websites as they are ranked today, which as I write this, is near the end of August, 2003. (NOTE: To be absolutely clear, these are the top 100... ENGLISH Language... websites):

1. Yahoo!	51. RealNetworks
2. MSN.com	52. Ez Board
3. Google	53. Freeserve
4. Passport.net	54. Neopets
5. Microsoft Windows	55. COMPAQ Computer Corp.
6. Ebay.com	56. Internet Archive
7. Amazon.com	57. Exitfuel.com
8. Go Network	58. Washington Post Company
9. Hotmail	59. Revenue.net
10. AOL Anywhere	60. AT&T WorldNet
11. CNN	61. Smut Server
12. Gator.com	62. Cartoon Network.com
13. BBC Online	63. Craiglslist.org Online Community
14. Doubleclick.net	64. Popuptraffic.com
15. MSNBC	65. Earthlink
16. Searchscout	66. Official Site Of Major League Baseball
17. Com.com	67. Symantec
18. Overture	68. Macromedia, Inc.
19. Mapquest	69. InfoSpace
20. Trafficmp.com	70. Realtor.com
21. Netscape.com	71. Adobe Systems Incorporated
22. Ebay UK	72. MSN UK
23. Weather	73. Rapidblaster.com
24. Match.com	74. Internet-optimizer.com
25. Lycos	75. DMOZ
26. Cliks.org	76. Travelocity
27. Trafficsyndicate.com	77. Shockwave
28. Altavista	78. Orbitz
29. Premium-offers.com	79. Bankofamerica.com
30. New York Times Online	80. Apple Computer
31. Comcast.net	81. BellSouth
32. Webshots	82. McAfee.com
33. Google.ca	83. The Voyeurweb
34. Excite	84. CNET Networks, Inc.
35. Fastclick.net	85. American Singles
36. Ask Jeeves	86. Mail.com
37. Kinghost.com	87. CBS.MarketWatch.com
38. Google.co.uk	88. Verisign
39. Pogo.com	89. USA Today
40. WindowsMedia.com	90. Amazon.co.uk
41. Monster.com	91. Net Zero
42. About	92. CBS SportsLine
43. Dell Computer Corporation	93. Rediff.com
44. Nasty Dollars	94. Icq.com
45. Tripod	95. UPS
46. The Internet Movie Database	96. AllTheWeb
47. Internetfuel	97. City Search.com
48. Expedia Travel	98. Fox News Channel
49. IWon	99. Paypopup.com
50. Adult Friendfinder	100. My Way


Where do you get info like this? It's easy. Just go to:

www.Alexa.com

This is a free website which ranks other websites, mainly according to how much traffic (visitors) each one gets. My website (www.TheGaryHalbertLetter.com) ranking goes way up whenever I post a new monthly newsletter. Recently, I posted a new letter on my site and my ranking was 2,120 from the top. That means, on that day (actually it was for 2 or 3 days) there were only 2,119 websites (out of 10 million) which were receiving more visitors than me. And, an awful lot of them were search engines, travel websites where you can buy e-tickets (for air travel, you dummy) and stuff like that.

However, my average daily traffic ranking for the lasts 3 months is 12,504. That means, out of 10 million websites, I am, on any given day, ranked...

Ahead Of 9,987,436
Of Those Websites!

Do you have a website? If so, you can go to www.Alexa.com and type in the name of your site (or any other site) and see where your site (or any other site) is ranked.

Are you familiar with Ken McCarthy, Mark Joyner, Mike Enlow, Alex Mandossian, Ted Ciuba, Michael Penland, Joel Christopher, Jonathan Mizel, Fred Gleeck or Jeffrey Lant?

All of these people claim to be Internet/website experts, whom, if you cross their palms with silver, will teach you the "tricks" of getting a lot more traffic to your website... and... how to make your site much more profitable.

Would it not be interesting to check out the websites owned by all these "experts" on www.Alexa.com and see where they rank? Just for the hell of it, I think I'll give it a shot:

Name	Website Name	Alexa Rank	

Ken McCarthy	Amacord.com	187,401
Mark Joyner	KillerTactics.com	80,775
Mike Enlow	EnlowCircle.com	25,468
Alex Mandossian	MarketingWithPostcards.com	3,303
Ted Ciuba	HowToGetRichOnTheInternet.com	169,269
Michael Penland	Penland.com	347,557
Joel Christopher	MasterListBuilder.com	61,704
Jonathan Mizel	CyberWaveCoachingClub.com	133,549
Fred Gleeck	SeminarExpert.com	352,292
Fred Gleeck	FredGleeck.com	250,692
Jeffrey Lant	JeffreyLant.com	664,882

As you can see, most of these "experts" are ranked so far down from the peak of the mountain...

They Can't Even
See The Top!

But, what about those others whose rankings are somewhat less than horrible? Unfortunately, many of those low rankings are phony. Let's say we've got a website expert who has a website named www.InternetScammer.com. Well, what a lot of these guys do is offer (as a part of their service) to set up a free website for you. All they really do is add you to their own website and, your address becomes something like this:

www.InternetScammer.com/WebsiteVirgin#1

And their next victim gets his own website also. The address of this next victim would be something like:

www.InternetScammer.com/WebsiteVirgin#2

And so on. OK, let's say this "website expert" signs up 500 clients like this. And, let's say some of them are less than idiots and they actually do get some traffic. ALL of that traffic from ALL of those 500 clients is counted as traffic to the main site (www.InternetScammer.com).

Which, of course, makes him look much better when you check out his ranking on Alexa.

Comprende?

Onward. What if you've got no product? Many of these "experts" will graciously allow you to sell their products.

No sales pitch? No problem. Many of these outstanding people will let you use their sales pitches to sell their products! Can you guess why they don't sell their products themselves? Simply put...

They Don't Know How!

All they are (most of them) are MLM scammers who have discovered the Internet.

Let's check out what somebody who really knows his shit can do. Not long ago, I got an e-mail from Leonard Fumarto who said he was putting together a book on Internet marketing. The way he was doing it was, he was interviewing all the top Internet "experts" he could find and publishing each of those interviews as a separate chapter in his book. He wanted to do this with me and he sent me his book (which was nearly finished) so I could evaluate it.

The book was pure shit. All the experts had the same advice. They started with some vapid suggestions like 'write down all your hobbies and stuff you like to do. Then, write down a list of your goals. Then, spend a couple days walking on the beach or in the woods... and... determine what you would REALLY like to do most.'

After all that, the "expert" would say you should go to his website at www.PhonyExpert.com and...

Spend A Lot Of Money Buying
E-Books, Tapes and Videos From
Him Which Will Tell You How To
Become Rich With Your Website!


Anyway, I e-mailed back Leonard Fumarto and told him I didn't think much of his book and I wasn't interested... even though... he was going to let me sell his book to my own customers and keep 70% of the money from the sales.

He sent me back a rather vicious e-mail telling me he had just returned from a meeting with the top website experts in the world... and... all of them... agreed I was a worthless piece of shit who was too dumb to even sit in front of a keyboard.

God, I Hope That's True!

Do you know how much it sucks to be praised by people you despise?

Whatever. A few days pass and then I get an e-mail from another guy asking me to endorse another book to my own list. I wrote back how I never endorse anything I am not completely passionate about... and how... I wasn't passionate at all about his book because I had never read it nor was I even aware of its existence.

This guy e-mailed me a shitty message about my conceit, arrogance and attitude. Which (foolishly) I replied to suggesting he create something of substance and sell it himself by the unique method of telling the truth about what he had created.

This set off a non-stop series of the most vicious e-mails I have ever received. They kept coming and coming and this insane shit weasel (God, I love to write 'shit weasel') was even threatening to kill me.

So, I decided to do the only sane thing I could think of... which was...

To Arrange To Have A Small Group
Of Muscular, Pigment-Impaired, Young
Gentlemen Give Him A Graduate
Education In The AEP!*


Fortunately, before I put my plan into action, I had a talk with my friend Scott ("Mongo") Haines. He told me he didn't believe my vicious e-mails were coming from the book author named Terrance Leednaught. He said I'd better check with Mr. Leednaught to make sure he was indeed the author of those e-mails.

So, I put Terrance Leednaught into a search engine which gave me his website which, in turn, gave me his home phone number. I called Mr. Leednaught and it turns out he is an elderly Christian gentlemen who publishes a religious website and who was NOT the author of those awful e-mails. Whoever was the author of those e-mails was obviously hiding behind Mr. Leednaught's name.

So, I asked Rudy (who was working as my assistant until he had to go back to college) to look into this for me. By the way, Rudy is a nice, young Chinese man who, I would guess, is something few of you have ever met. You see, Rudy is...

A Real Geek!

Many people have told you they are real geeks, which means... of course... they are computer literate. All of these people are liars. None of them would make a pimple on a real geek's ass. Here is a clue about the difference between a fake geek and a real geek:

A fake geek will have a computer with a hard drive with about 40 gigabytes.

A real geek (like Rudy) has a computer with...

1.2 Terrabytes!

That means, Rudy's hard drive has the capacity of...

307 Normal Computers!

Rudy is 21-years old and he can do things with a computer which maybe only two or three other people in the world can do. So, I ask him if he can track down the origin of those vicious e-mails. It must have taken Rudy all of about 12 minutes to do it.

Then, I step in with MY expertise. My Uncle Jack (who died recently) was one of the best Morse Code men in the entire world in World War II. He could send and receive Morse Code with lightning speed.

Now, here is a little something most people don't know. (Why should they? After all, most people are idiots).

What most people don't know is, it turns out everyone who sends Morse Code has what's called a "signature fist". What that means is, everyone who sends a Morse Code message taps it out a little differently. And, if you know the sender's "signature fist", you can ascertain his identity instantly.

Guess what? Nobody else is ever going to tell you this... but... everyone who uses a computer has a "signature keyboard fist". For example, when the little finger on my left hand depresses the letter "A" on a computer keyboard, I do it a little harder or a little softer than you do it... or... anyone else in the world does it.

If I use the middle finger of my right hand to reach up to the top of the keyboard and depress "F7", I do it a little slower or a little faster than you or any other person. I also depress the "F1" key a little harder or a little softer than anyone else.

With Morse Code, you can only tap out 26 different letters and the numbers zero through nine. But, on a computer keyboard, there are a trillion, zillion subtle differences. And, if you have a software program which can analyze these differences, you can identify the identity of anyone who has sent you an a-emil message. There are only (to my knowledge) seven of these software programs in the world. As far as I know, even the CIA and NSA don't have one.

But anyway, my Uncle Jack knew many military secrets (he had a top secret clearance) and he took all of his secrets to the grave. But, you know what? Before he died, he gave me a little something he had spent his lifetime perfecting. Only five other people know about it.

Let's shorten this story: When I realized it wasn't Terrance Leednaught sending me those vicious e-mails, I started to suspect it was Leonard Fumarto who was the author of them. I retrieved Uncle Jack's secret software program from its hiding place (all the alphabet agencies in the world could never find it) and check it against Leonard Fumarto's previous e-mails to me. BINGO! He was the author of all those e-mails. It was a more foolproof identity "make" than you can get from fingerprints or DNA.

I got another nasty e-mail from Leonard Fumarto (disguised as Terrance Leednaught) telling me all about the horrible things he was gong to do to me. I e-mailed back to him a message which said something like...

"No, Mr. Fumarto. You are not going to do any of those things to me. What you are going to do is go to prison and become a member of the AEP (Asshole Enlargement Program) and, when you come out, your rectum will be approximately the size of the Holland Tunnel."

I also cc'd a copy of this message to the real e-mail address of Leonard Fumarto. Leonard e-mailed me back almost immediately declaring his innocence. I e-mailed him back and told him how I KNEW it was him and how the name of my Bimini boat was "No Mercy" because it reflected my personality so accurately.

All this occurred in the evening and I took a couple Ambien and went to bed. As soon as I woke up the next morning, my phone was ringing. It was Leonard Fumarto himself. He told me how I was making a terrible mistake. How he was not the author of those e-mails. And then, I explained in detail how I knew it was him and painted a picture for him of what the rest of his life was going to be like.

He started sobbing. He started begging. He admitted he did it. He tried to explain his actions by telling me how much my rejection of his proposal had hurt him. He begged me (through his sobs) not to ruin his life. He explained how he was only 17-years old and had done all this in a blind, insane rage. He said he would do anything (anything whatsoever) if I would let him off the hook.

I told him to shut up and listen. I told him not to say a single word. Then, I said, "Leonard, I'm hungry and I'm going downstairs to eat breakfast. During my breakfast, we're going to find out how good a copywriter you really are. Here's why: When I come back from breakfast, I am going to have an e-mail from you.

"The first thing you are going to do is admit it was you who sent those vicious e-mails. The second thing you are going to do is tell me how genuinely sorry you are you did those things... and... that you will NEVER do anything like that again.

"Now, here's the deal: If there is no e-mail from you... or... I don't believe your e-mail is sincere, I am going to ruin your life and I am going to do it immediately." I hung up and went to breakfast. When I came back, there was an e-mail from Leonard and, I did believe his apology and remorse was sincere. So, I wrote him a brief e-mail which went something like this:

"Leonard, you have nothing more to fear from me. I will not interfere with your life in any way. It took courage to admit what you did and more courage to apologize for it. And, in spite of everything, I genuinely wish you success in all your endeavors. Gary"

He wrote back, "Thank you, Gary" to which I replied, "You're welcome."

And, that was the end of that.

Why didn't I destroy him? Why didn't I ruin his life? Why have I disguised his name and the name of the man he pretended to be in all those vicious e-mails? In short, why did I let him off the hook?

First, he's just a kid. And, even if he weren't a kid, but was one of those Internet website "experts" mentioned earlier in this newsletter, it would be impossible for him (at any age) to believe a couple guys like Rudy and myself could be 100,000 times more technologically savvy than him or anyone he had ever seen, heard or read about.

If I told you the truth about what Rudy can do with a computer, it would make you (even if you are an "Alpha Geek") feel like an idiot.

If I told you what I can do with a computer (and I told you the 100% truth) you would be afraid of me for the rest of your life. You would always be in fear I might turn my expertise against you. Which, unless you are the scum of the earth, is never going to happen.

But, there's another much more important reason I let this guy off the hook. You see, when somebody wrongs you, I think the best thing and the most utilitarian thing you can do for yourself is...

Forgive Them!

I'm not perfect at this but, I am getting better.

Anyway, all of the above was written to try to convince you that when it comes to computers... maybe, just maybe... me and a very small group of friends of mine might know a few little secrets which you don't know. I'll never teach you nor anyone else the secrets of what I just wrote. But, I'll you what, if you'll come meet me in Miami on October 3rd, 4th and 5th (that's a Friday, Saturday and Sunday), me, Rudy and a small select group of my friends will teach you...

How To Make More Money With
A Computer Than Any Sane Person
Could Possibly Spend!

Have I got your attention yet? If not, go back to watching your favorite "Survivor" show on TV. But, if I do have your attention, keep reading.

If you think what I've already written is hot, just wait until you read the money-making secrets of "for real" computer profits... which... I have finally (after much agonizing debate in my mind) decided I'm going to tell you about.

Let's get started: The first thing I'm going to teach you is how to take out full-page ads in almost every newspaper in America (to promote your website)...

For No Cost Whatsoever!

And, this is not some bullshit free publicity deal either. Nor is it theory. It's real, it works, it's free, it's proven... and... I personally invented it and have tested it.

You know, I can hardly believe I'm going to reveal this and other secrets just as valuable. Maybe I'm an idiot. But, as Dan Kennedy so cruelly pointed out, maybe I'm just so damn old now, if I don't get these secrets off my chest, I'll explode... and... I'll take them to my grave while leaving all the rest of you staggering about like blind mice trying to escape a maze.

Shit, we can't have that now, can we? So, here's another little secret I'm going to reveal about how to make fungolas with your PC. (You know, I wish at least some of you had the brains to figure out a little of this for yourself.)

Ah whatever, here's the second thing I'm going to reveal. If you already have a profitable website, I'm going to teach you...

How To Increase Your Website Profits
By 1,000% To 1,500% By Making A Simple
Change Which Will Cost You Only
20-Minutes Of Your Time!

"What the hell?!" Did you say you've been in the Internet computer business for 20-years and you don't believe me? Listen, Dummy, this is Gary C. Halbert talking and what I say I can do, I CAN DO. And, if you have one more negative thought while you read the rest of this letter...

I Won't Let You Come
To My October Seminar!

Oh wait! I just looked at the clock and it's "Question and Answer Time":

Q:	

If you own a website and you have hundreds or thousands of paid customers, how many times should you send them follow-up e-mails making them an offer to buy something else from you?


A:	

Never! What you really should do (and yes, I will teach you how) is something else which will multiply your website profits by a factor of ten!


Q:	

What is the most profitable thing for you to sell on your website?


A:	

It sure as hell is NOT what you are selling now. What you SHOULD be selling (to make maximum profits) can be figured out as precisely as a world-class marksman can hit a large bulls-eye from 10-yards away. And guess what? Without my guidance, neither you nor your phony guru (they're all phony) will never figure this out in a million years!


Q:	

How do I make sure my merchant account (for processing credit cards) will never be shut down?


A:	

By having all your credit card transactions processed outside the United States. But, you've got to know exactly how to do this... and... one of my guest speakers is going to show you exactly how to do it. I would guess this absolutely vital info is known by only about 1/100 of 1% of all website owners. And, I'll bet you a dollar to a donut that neither you nor your current Internet guru (you really should fire that guy immediately) don't have a clue about how to do this.


Q:	

What is the difference from an "opt in" e-mail list and one which is not "opt in"?


A:	

Basically nothing. An "opt in" person is most often someone who has been scammed into answering a seemingly innocent question... which... according to the web "expert" liars, basically gives you the right to send that person endless e-mails which clutter up his computer.

Sooner or later, sending e-mails to "opt in" lists will seriously backfire on you. Did you know 73% of people who complain about getting too many e-mails are from people on "opt in" lists?


Q:	

How much technical "know how" should you have when it comes to using a computer?


A:	

Almost none. Just the bare basics. Here's something you've seen a hundred times in movies and on TV: An important-looking guy walks into the "tech" (geek) room of his operation. He says, "Hey, No-Life, can you get me an aerial map of California on your PC screen?"

No-Life replies, "Sure", taps his keyboard with lightning speed and... SHAZAAM!... there is the aerial map.

"Now zoom in on San Diego", says IG (Important Guy). The geek does so. "Now find Bleeker Street for me," says IG. "Great! Now can you find the house at 123 Bleeker Street?"

The geek does. Then IG says, "Zoom in on the driveway." In a flash, No-Life does it. "See that yellow Hummer or SUV there? See if you can zoom in and get the license plate for me."

The geek zooms in on the license plate but, it's a bit blurry. "Can you enhance that image for me?" asks Mr. IG to No-Life. The geek does and then, under IG's instructions, No-Life prints out the tag number.

"Thanks," says IG and then he stops the gorgeous female assistant who is scurrying across the room with an armful of printouts. "Hey Doll," says IG, "I've got a 911 situation here. I need you to run this file through all the databases we have access to."

She does. It takes her a whole seven minutes. "Aha!" says IG, "That's Dr. Kit Weathers' place. He's been stealing the gold from all the teeth he's been extracting which was put there by some ego maniac named 'Strupp'. Having gold is now illegal under Code G11-19 of the Patriot Act. I think the good Dr. Weathers has it hidden inside the tires of his vehicle and he's planning to drive down to Mexico to sell half of it to Pablo Escobar and the other half to Elvis... who both (as everybody knows)... have faked their own deaths. Get a warrant and get your asses out there and tear that vehicle apart until you find the gold. Do it. Go now!"

What's the moral here? Think for a moment: It was Mr. IG who was doing everything truly important. No-Life and "Doll" were just doing high-level CLERICAL work.

And, so it is with private companies. Who is more valuable: The guy who writes a great sales letter for you... or... the person who typesets and prints it... or... the person who puts it on the Internet for you?

Get Your Priorities Right!

It's The Guy Who
Creates The Killer Sales Messages
For You Who Is More Important
Than A Million Geeks!


And, if you come to my seminar, that guy is going to be YOU!

And, to be fair, I want to weasel out just a bit about how a salesman is infinitely more valuable than a geek. That's only about 99.9999% true. There are some (you can count them on one hand) exceptions. Imagine this: Imagine a person who has an IQ of 178. Imagine that person is 31-years old. Now, imagine that person has been on a computer for 12 to 18-hours per day since the age of 12. Even at the low end of only 12-hours per day, we've got someone who has spent...

83,220 INTELLIGENT Hours
On A Computer!

By the way, that's FOUR MILLION, NINE HUNDRED NINETY-THREE THOUSAND AND TWO HUNDRED MINUTES this person has spent using a computer intelligently!

And, guess what else? This person can explain... in simple ABC fashion... everything this mega-geek has learned... to a complete computer novice! Modestly, I want to say...

This Person Is To Computers
What I Am To Copywriting!

Imagine someone who knows their shit 100% cold... and... just like me... can explain it entertainingly and understandably and SIMPLY to others. This person is MY webmaster. The webmaster I have been looking for for years!

This person is going to be (besides me) the main speaker at my seminar.

Do you know what an algorithm is? According to the Oxford American Dictionary, it is: "A process of rules for calculating something, especially by machine." And, in today's world, just as you would probably expect, 99% of the machines which create algorithms are...

Computers!

Are you familiar with the words "search engine optimization"? How about "keyword density"? Here's the scoop: A website "expert" tells you the top words searched for in search engines. They tell you by putting those top-searched-for-words in your website, you can get in the top ten results.

Let's say you wanted to be the number one site that pops up when someone types the word "marbles" into a search engine. And suppose you didn't particularly care if you sold or told anything about marbles. You just wanted to be number one in the results when someone typed "marbles" into their search engine. In that case, it would seem your website should be named...

www.Marbles.com

and, the site should read...

Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles. Marbles.

You'd think the search engine would decide you would be the number one site a person should go to if they wanted info about marbles, wouldn't you?

Not so. Because search engines use an algorithm to determine what the most relevant website would be for a person who typed the word "marbles" into their search engine. For every x number of words of copy on your website, if one of those words is not "marbles", you will not come up in the top ten of search engine results. However, if the word "marbles" comes up too often, the clever algorithm which is EL JEFFE (the boss) of the search engine, will tell the search engine your website is a spam site and, it won't come up in the results at all.

Or maybe it will come up as 167,819 out of the 167,820 total results which come up when you type in "marbles".

Keyword density is how often "marbles" comes up in your website content. Not often enough and your website will be disregarded. Comes up too often and your website will be considered a "spam site" and not come up at all... or... come up so far down the list, nobody would ever get to it. And...

The Algorithm
Changes Every Month!

My webmaster who will be speaking at my seminar, will explain how all this works. And, explain it in... plain English... so even people like YOU will be able to understand it.

And, of course, even people like me.

That's just one of the many "tricks" of "search engine optimization" my webmaster knows about and will explain to you.

Hey, I was just wondering: Did YOUR Internet/website guru neglect to tell YOU about all this?

There's no doubt about it...

My Webmaster Is Smarter And
Tougher Than Your Webmaster!

s	You'll also learn how to choose keywords which will kill your competition!
s	How to bring free TARGETED traffic to your website!
s	How to get and use the exact tools you need to track your traffic and, more importantly, to understand your converson rate!
s	The easy way to calculate your ROI!
s	The legitimate way to use portals without being blackballed!
s	How to automate your business so you can sleep while raking in cash by the truckloads!
s	How to make millions with e-mail without resorting to spam!
s	How to secure your most valuable asset: Your customer list!
s	What you MUST do to protect your computer and your business!
s	Learn how to detect security risks and fix them without getting ripped off by a so-called security expert!
s	The truth about encryption and how to measure the safety of your encrypted e-mail!
s	How to use video on your website without sucking your bandwidth!
s	How to get so many LEGITIMATE links to your site, it will almost defy belief!

I could tell you more. A lot more. But I'm getting tired of writing this letter so, let's wrap it up. I did a previous seminar on how to make website profits in June of 2001 and, every attendee had to pay...

A Staggering $11,970!

This seminar is going to be much cheaper. I'm going to charge only half of what I charged last time. That's $5,985. Plus, you can bring two additional guests... absolutely free!

But, you have to sign up fast... and... you HAVE to stay at the hotel where the seminar is being held. Here's a tip: DON'T bring anyone with you like your spouse or someone not intensely involved with this business.

Al Gore may have invented the Internet... but... it was ME who supercharged it with my June 2001 seminar. And, my next seminar is going to put website profits on steroids! You know what? There were only about 8,000,000 websites when I gave that previous seminar and now, there are nearly 2,000,000 more websites...

Many Of Which Are
Financially Profitable!

And, you know what? I would guess about 50 times as many of those new two million websites are profitable... compared... to the percentage which were profitable of the 8,000,000 websites that existed before my 2001 seminar.

Thanks once again to the efforts of modest ol' me.

Now, you better pay attention: The biggest threat to the profits of your website business (or any other direct response business) is...

Problems With Your Merchant Account!

You know what a merchant account is, don't you? That's the account which processes all your credit card orders. A good (for real) merchant account is almost impossible to get. Plus, they will cut off your ability to process credit card orders for any reason they can think of. And, since the insane Patriot Act came into existence, they will cut off your ability to process credit card orders...

For No Sane Reason Whatsoever!

I live mostly in Costa Rica now and, there are more Internet gambling websites (1,000% more) here than any place else in the world. Online betting is legal here. A short time ago (out of blatant stupidity) the U.S. government tried to shut down all these Costa Rican online gambling websites by twisting the arms of ALL banks (both U.S.A. and foreign) NOT to process any more online gambling transactions.

However, according to a front-page article in USA Today (Friday, August 22, 2003) a guy named Sinclair (president of Maine-based Christianson Capital Advisors, a gambling consultant company which tracks Internet wagering)...

"Most operators were off by 20% early this year. But [he says] voluntary stoppage by U.S. credit card companies actually has worked for the Internet gambling operations, giving them time to set up payment methods that will be more difficult if not impossible for Congress to restrict.""

You need to know how they (and you) can do this. It's so clever, you won't believe it. And, you better learn how it's done right now!

And, guess what? One of my guest speakers is a man who probably knows more about Internet gambling... and... how to process credit card gambling debt... than any person you are likely to meet ANYWHERE outside one of my seminars. And, he is going to teach my attendees...

How To 100% Avoid
Merchant Account Nightmares!

And, you'll never know his name unless you attend my seminar... because...

This Seminar Will Not
Be Videotaped Or Audiotaped!

You can't tape it with your own tape recording device either... because... you won't be allowed to bring a tape recorder or a video recorder into the seminar. You can try and "sneak" one into the seminar but, if you do... a real honest to God FBI agent...

Will Catch You, Throw You
Out Of The Seminar, And Give
What You Paid As Tuition To Charity!


This is one seminar, if you want the real inside info on making HUGE website profits...

You Gotta Attend!

And, if you are interested, you better get your ass in gear right now. There are only two ways to order. One is to make out your check in the amount of $5,985 made payable to "New Millennium" and send it to:

New Millennium
c/o Carlos Duran
Suite 521
1521 Alton Road
Miami, FL 33139

By the way, if you prefer to order by credit card, you now have to give us (in addition to all the other information) the "security code" the Government now forces us to get from you. Here's how you find that bullshit "security code": If you use American Express, look at the front of your card. See your 15-digit card number? Right above that are four numbers which are your "security code" numbers which we now have to have in order to process your credit card order.

Using VISA? Look on the back of your card: You see your signature panel there? Well, part of the number of your VISA card is back there too... plus... it is followed by three additional numbers. Those three numbers are your "security code" which we need to process your order.

MasterCard? It's exactly the same as VISA.

So, if you prefer to order by credit card, all you have to do is call the voicemail at the number below (you can call anytime, 7-days per week, 24-hours a day)... and... you will hear me say, "Hi, this is Gary and thanks for calling to sign up for my October Website Seminar. Please leave the name of your credit card and the card number along with that new security code. Give us your name and address exactly as it appears on your credit card and credit card statement. We will bill your card $5,985.00 which gives you the right to attend the seminar and bring two other people at no extra cost. Leave your email address and we will immediately send you the name, address and other details about the seminar hotel. Please speak slowly and clearly and spell out any unusual words. Thanks again for calling. Here's the beep."

OK, after you hear that message, do just like it says and you'll get an immediate e-mail with the name and location of the seminar hotel and a few other details you might want to know.

The number to call is...

(305) 381-9697

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
(with some help from Al Gore)
"Internet Pioneers"

P.S.	

Why don't we just get all the numbers in our lives tattooed in "mirror image" all over our body. What's that? You want my driver's license number? Just let me take my shirt off and stand in front of a mirror and I can read it in the mirror right off the reflection of my belly.

Need my voicemail code number so I can get my messages? That's on the bottom of my left foot. Just give me a hand held mirror and let me take off my left shoe and sock.

Oh wait! I need my Social Security number. Gimme that mirror again so I can read what's tattooed on the bottom of my right foot.

My e-mail password? That's kinda private. I'm gonna need that hand mirror again. Please turn your head and close your eyes 'cause I gotta take my underwear off to access that. Shit, I can't see the whole number. Anybody got a Viagra?

Hey, I am insane, you know.

Peace.

_________________

* AEP - Asshole Enlargement Program

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright ï¿½ 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Memorial Videos Posted

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/2007/october%202007%20newsletter/october%202007%20newsletter.htm

THE GARY HALBERT LETTER

7510 SUNSET BLVD. #1020

LA, CA 90046

KEVINHALBERT@thegaryhalbertletter.com

PHONE 323-851-8275




From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

     Welcome to the Memorial section of the Gary Halbert Letter.Here we have posted videos of the memorial service along with stories of our father, told by the people who experienced life with him first hand, something now only a handful of people will have ever known.

     I would like to thank Ralph Zuranski who selflessly offered to video tape and photograph the event for free, expecting nothing in return. He has a site insearchofheroes.com where he interviews people he finds to be of significance, there you will find many people my father respected and even more who respected him.

     We would also like to thank Dave Loftus and Sherry Hackett, who offered to open her house to us and cater the after party, on their own dime no less. I enjoyed talking Scott Hanes into being brave enough to ask Sherry for an autograph and then promptly telling him in front of her that I couldn’t believe he actually did that, something my father would have done, he loved embarrassing people.

     The memorial videos here, have people like John Carlton, Joe Polish, Dave Kekich, Blade Thomas, Eric Weinstein, and Lorrie Morgan Ferrero, as well as stories told by his road dogs, Scott Haines, Caleb O’dowd, Sam Markowitz and many others, as well as comments made by Bond and myself, (please forgive me if I have left your name out).

     The memorial was held at my mother’s church (Hope Lutheran Church, in Hollywood, CA) where she has served many times as the church counsel president. After the memorial church staff who helped out, said it was one of the best memorials they had ever seen, that’s what happens when the worlds great copywriters stand up to honor one of their own. The videos here (other than Ralph’s editing) are not slick they are real, they show the real people that made up my fathers closest friends and family, my fathers universe. My comments at the time were about as disorganized as my life at the time.

 

     Enjoy,

Kevin Halbert

 

 

Video #1

Video #2

Video #3

Video #4

Video #5

Video #6

Video #7

Video #8

Video #9

 

 

       

	
	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2007 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## I Deserve A Black Belt In Self Pity!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zjzd_self_pity.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

If you are in direct marketing... and... you don't make a lot of extra profit because of the info in this newsletter... you... are too stupid to deserve to live!

Hey, can you tell I'm not sick any more? It's really very easy. On the rare occasions I am sick, I snivel and whine like you wouldn't believe. In fact, I'm so good at it, I believe...

I Deserve A Black Belt
In Self-Pity!

On the other hand (as you can see by the first sentence of this letter) when I'm not sick, I revert to my regular, prickish, asshole self.

So, that's who you've got now and, I'm going to pound some info into your little brain which will (for sure) make you a lot of money. Some of it will be hard-nosed common sense... and... later, I'm going to reveal to you what I believe to be a real, honest-to-God marketing breakthrough.

Let's begin by assuming you are a businessman... and... you are insane. A new bank comes to town and, after you learn all about this bank, you decide to do business with them. However, this bank is a bit different from other banks. The main differences are:

1.	When you deposit money into this bank they... DO NOT... give you any type of receipt or deposit slip.
2.	And secondly, they... DO NOT... keep any record of how much money you have deposited with them.
3.	And, hey, I almost forgot: They also don't let you... EVER... withdraw... ANY... of the money you have deposited.

So, why would you choose to do business with such a bank? Like I said earlier, it's because you are basically insane.

Aw, but you couldn't be that nutso, could you? Shall we examine the way you do business and take a closer look?

A first-class postage stamp costs 37¢ these days, does it not? Well, I want you to start thinking of these stamps as 37¢ paper coins. Now, let's say you have a box with 100,000 of these paper coins inside. You decide you don't want to keep all that money laying around the office... so... you go get Pedro (your lowest-paid employee) and tell him to boogie on down to "The Bank For Insane People" and deposit all those paper coins.

By the way, those 100,000 paper coins valued at 37¢ each is worth a total of $37,000.

Anyway, Pedro trots down to the bank and deposits the 37 thou. The counter clerk smiles and says, "Thank you" and Pedro returns to your office. Now, actually, before Pedro got to the bank, he realized he was "jonesing for a joint." So, he opened the box, saw all those paper coins and realized nobody would know if he took enough of them to buy a few joints. So, Pedro reached his paw into the box and took out a fistful of those paper coins. Then, he had another thought: What he realized was, nobody would know if he took... A LOT... of those paper coins out of that box. So, he did.

Pedro gets back to your office and you ask him if he has deposited the paper coins into the bank. He answers 'yes,' and goes back to his minimum wage job of shoveling shit or whatever other minimal task you have assigned him to do.

But, a nagging thought keeps tugging at the corner of your alleged brain. You wonder if Pedro really did deposit... ALL... of that $37,000 worth of paper coins. So, you call the bank and ask them if he did. To which they reply:

"Sir, you must have forgotten you are now doing business with The Bank For Insane People and, we don't keep records of deposits."

So, you smile, forget the whole thing and go back to work.

Now, of course, you really aren't that stupid, are you?

No? Let's take a look at something else many of you really do.

Many of you mail 100,000 or more letters per week. More accurately, you have a lettershop do that for you. They print the pitch, assemble it, take it to the post office and then invoice you for the job.

Now, if they bought the postage to put on your letters, they'll invoice you for $37,000 in postage costs. Most likely though, you will have paid the lettershop up-front for the cost of postage.

Now, how do you know they put all that $37,000 worth of stamps on your letters and dropped it in the mail?

I Flat Out Guarantee
You, They Did NOT!

Even if the lettershop owner himself (or herself) is 100% honest, it is not the owner who takes the letters to the post office. No, it's one of his low-wage employees.

Guys who work on the loading docks of post offices have low-paying jobs that suck. Minimum-wage Pedro who works for you... or... his counterpart who works for the lettershop also has a job that sucks. Do you think these guys with their sucky lives have such high moral standards they wouldn't even think of ripping off a lot of your 37¢ paper coins?

Get real!

A true story: Not long ago, I participated in a little test. 10,000 diet names were rented from a list broker. Half (5,000) of those names were given to a lettershop with instructions to prepare the mailing and take it to the post office. Then, we prepared the other 5,000 letters and took them to the post office ourselves. The letters, envelopes and everything about the mailing were identical. The only difference was, who did the work. Guess what?

For Some Mysterious Reason
Our 5,000 Letters Pulled In
Three Times As Many Orders As The
5,000 Sent Out By The Lettershop!

Look, this doesn't mean you should stop working with lettershops. You can still use them to prepare your mail. You can still use them to put the stamps on your mail. But, don't you dare let them take your letters to the post office!

You have them deliver those letters to you!

Then, you count the letters and... take them to the post office yourself!

If you won't follow this advice, you really are too dumb to live. It's exactly like letting Pedro take your money to The Bank For Insane People and then... taking his word... he deposited all the money. Hear this:

 

Taking Your Mail To The Post Office Yourself
Will Improve The Profitability Of Your
Mailings More Than Any Other Single
Thing You Can Do!

To hell with it. If you didn't get the message after the way I just explained it, you are beyond all hope.

Now, let's talk about what I consider to be a true marketing breakthrough. You know, if you use direct mail or run a lot of space ads, you are doing one of two things:

1.	You are trying to get leads.
2.	You are trying to make an immediate sale.

Whichever you are trying to do, you almost certainly give people a phone number to call. And, most of the time, that number will be a toll-free number like an 800# or an 888#. Well, sometime ago, I got suspicious about something and I started to ask around and I began testing it myself. Here's what appears to be true:

About Twice As Many People Will Call
A Regular Area Code Phone Number
As Will Call A Toll-Free Phone Number!

I'm not sure why. I suspect it's because people think calling a toll-free phone number will connect them to a high-pressure, rabid telemarketer who will try to force them to buy something.

Not long ago, I asked a large number of my readers to call a certain phone number. It was a 305 area code phone number here in Miami. I asked them all to call on the exact same date at the exact same time. They did and what I discovered is my $15.00 per month voicemail number could be called by 48 people at the exact same time... and... NONE of them would get a busy signal. They ALL got my recorded message.

Did you get the part where I said a voicemail with a regular area code phone number costs only $15.00 per month? Do you know how much you would have to pay if all those calls were going to your toll-free phone number... for which... you have to pay the charges? Especially if you use an answering service to take your leads or orders? On a monthly basis, it's...

Something Like
100 Times As Much!

How do we exploit this situation? I've got a "killer" way to do it which I will explain in next month's issue of this newsletter. It's so slick, it amazes even me.

But, I want to finish this newsletter on another subject.

The readership of this newsletter has grown almost beyond belief. And, because of this, I get a continuous stream of requests from people (people I don't even know) asking me to endorse their product or service.

I NEVER do it. I have a rule: I never endorse anything somebody asks me to endorse. I only endorse things when it is my idea. Usually, the people I'm endorsing don't even know I wrote them up... until... they read it in this newsletter at the same time everybody else is reading it. You... CANNOT... buy an endorsement or any kind of ad in "The Gary Halbert Letter". Needless to say, I only endorse things I believe have extreme value. And, this month, I'm going to tell you about something which has mega-extreme value and I strongly urge you to buy it.

A friend of mine lives right here in Florida in a town called Winter Haven which is close by where my mother used to live. He sells an "e-book" called "How To Stop Your Divorce". His e-book outsells all the other e-books combined on the subject of divorce. You know why? It's because in almost every divorce, there is one partner who does not want the divorce. And that partner doesn't just "sort of" not want the divorce... they really don't want it!

All the other e-books on divorce are more or less based on how to win your divorce; about how to inflict as much pain and gouge as much money as possible out of that scumbag prick or that rotten bitch you are married to. But, that pitch is "off target". How to stop your divorce is what one of the partners (and often both of them) really want.

Anyway, I consider this to be one of the ten most important books I have ever read. And, it's not because I'm having relationship troubles either. My Costa Rican corazon and me are ecstatic with each other and, I pray it will stay that way forever. No, the reason I consider this book so valuable is, in my opinion...

It Contains The
Best Lessons In
Sales Psychology
I've Ever Read!

What it teaches is an almost-foolproof blueprint for getting the outcome you want in a business deal, any kind of personal relationship and, if you have even half a brain... it will teach you how to dramatically enhance the profits of your marketing.

Just buy the book, Dummy. Hardly anything gets this strong of an endorsement from me.

Not to mention, of course, it will be worth its weight in gold if you happen to be in a troubled marriage.

All you have to do is, go online on your computer and type in your website address bar...

http://www.StopYourDivorce.com/ghl.htm

Hey, be sure to tell 'em Gary Halbert sent you. Then, maybe I can gouge a favor out of this guy some day.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert


Not-A-Fan-Of-MD's

 

P.S.	

On my website is an issue called "The Dark Side Of Success!" It was written years ago but, it is as timely now as it was the day I wrote it. I think you should read it. Immediately. 
Click on the link below...

The Dark Side Of Success!

Peace.


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Dark Side Of Success!

Kilde: https://thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/dark-side.htm

From:W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

I'm in danger.

This is really true. It's not an opening statement I'm using for shock value. No. It's not a joke either. Or a clever prelude to a marketing lesson. The alarm bells in my head are clanging and shrieking, stridently demanding attention.

Why? Listen: I've been on an especially hot roll lately and it's starting to go to my head. For one thing, I've just produced my first TV show (it's about the Beverly Hills Medical Diet) and I think it's a very good first effort. For another, I've just beaten one of my old direct mail control packages and now my client can profitably double his mailing schedule.

And He Was Already Mailing 700,000 Pieces Per Month!

And so on. But, best of all, as far as my ego is concerned, I just received a letter from a man named Drayton Bird who is the Vice Chairman of Ogilvy and Mather Direct in London. And, the reason that letter was so good for my ego is he was writing to tell me he is in frequent telephone communication with David Ogilvy and that Mr. Ogilvy has just sent him all back issues of my newsletter including what Mr. Bird refers to as the "brilliant" dollar bill acknowledgement letter. Mr. Bird wanted to know, among other things, if he could include some of my work in the upcoming new edition of his book called "Common Sense Marketing."

Well, I don't know about you but, for my money, David Ogilvy is easily the most astute advertising man alive and, to have captured his attention through these letters is the prize feather in my self-serving war bonnet of ego accolades.

Except for the actual numbers that are produced by a good piece of marketing: Those, of course, remain the supreme accolade of your work.

Or else the supreme indictment.

Have you ever heard of the Caples Awards? John Caples is one of my marketing heroes, but the new wrinkle in the awards given in his name makes me sick. You know what some slobs have decided about the Caples Awards? It's this: The direct marketing piece in contention doesn't have to be a winner for the writer to win the award, it only has to be "creative."

Isn't that nice? It must truly cheer many a clients' heart, after being rendered damn-near destitute by some fool's bird-brained, stupid ad campaign, to know the writer won the "Caples."

Shame on everybody connected.

Forgive me, I digress. Anyway, to get back to what I was saying, if you were to visit my offices and look around and talk to the staff, you'd see pictures of me with some celebrities and clients, you'd see I have a loving and gorgeous woman, you'd see framed letters on the walls from subscribers and clients I've helped make a lot of money, you'd see me working with my children, you'd see all of us laughing and joking and having a good time while everybody works like crazy and, if you could also read my thoughts, you'd see a man (me) dangerously close to making one of the deadliest mistakes a man can make which is...

Starting To Believe Your Own PR!

This can be fatal. I'm not talking injurious to your business (although it can most certainly be that), I'm talking fatal, fatal.

Like once upon a time when it almost was for me. Listen: Do you remember how, in my direct mail pitch, to get you to subscribe, I promised to write about "the dark side of success"? Well, it's time for me to do that. Therefore, this letter is not about how to improve your marketing or make more money. No, this letter is about how to keep your success from ruining your life as it almost did mine. If you have children and/or anyone else you love and, if you think there is value in these letters, this is the one, by far, that would be the most important to let your loved ones read. What you are about to learn is just how dumb, foolish and ignorant a supposedly intelligent man (Ol' "Guru Gary") can be. But let me suggest something: Before you smirk and get condescending about the stupidity I am about to reveal and say, "that Halbert is really dumb, that stupid stuff will never happen to me," I suggest you listen to that little whisper in the back of your mind that says...

Don't Be Too Sure.

Don't Be Too Sure.

Don't Be Too Sure.

Let us go back in time to the first half of 1973. Back then I was truly living high on the hog. I had sold my half-interest in Halberts Inc. (the coat-of-arms company with over seven million customers) for a sum that translates into today's money to something like 2 to 2-1/2 million dollars. I also had my publishing company (Good News Incorporated) cranked up to where it was generating millions of dollars per year. I had highly profitable investments (sometimes my silver futures contracts would appreciate as much as $20,000 per day), I had a showplace home atop a hill, a condo in Ft. Lauderdale, a boat in the Florida Keys, lots of hangers-on and, in general, I was...

A Big Fish In A

Little Pond

And believe me, I milked it for all it was worth. For example, whenever I found myself in a conversation with strangers and the conversation turned to money and everybody was trying to impress everybody else, I would always emerge victorious by using one of my conversational "toppers." Like so: If one of the group would ask me how much my income was, I'd say, "Oh about 20 thousand, I guess." And then they'd smile and say, "Well, that's not too bad. I guess $20,000 a year is decent money for a young guy like you." And then, of course, I'd use my "topper" by saying...

"Oh No, You Misunderstood. My

Income Is $20,000 Per Day!"

You like that one? Did it make you smile a little? Pretty clever, huh? Actually, what it really demonstrated was my...

Insufferable Stupidity!

I'll tell you something: Watch out for self-made guys in their 30's because many of them are just as insufferable (and dangerous) to themselves and others as I was.

Another example. Once upon a time, the First National Bank in Massilon, Ohio wouldn't even let me have a checking account because their credit research deemed me so unworthy.

Can you imagine that? A bank that says you're such a bummer they won't even let you deposit money?

So guess where I did my banking after I made my big bucks? You're right. Right there at the good ol' First National. And guess who, when the bank deposit was especially huge, made the deposit himself?

Bingo. You're right again. Picture this: It's about two o'clock on a Monday afternoon. The door to the bank opens and in walks what appears to be a young guy in his 30's who has been working on a road gang. He's wearing faded and torn blue jeans, a sloppy sweatshirt and he's carrying a canvas bag over his shoulder. He waits patiently in line and, when he gets to the teller, he tells her he wants to make a deposit. And then in full view of all the customers in the bank and its employees, this rather shabby-looking young man starts pulling out wads of checks and cash and stack them side-by-side a foot or so high in front of the open-mouthed teller.

Sort of asking for it, wasn't I?

Well, I got it and it went down like this: One day in the first week of July, 1973, just after dark, I went to get the groceries out of the trunk of the car. The car was outside the garage and, as I was coming from inside the house, I had to push the button that would open the garage door automatically. As soon as the door went up, I saw two figures standing outside the garage wearing ski masks. At first I thought they were kids and I started to bitch. But the complaint died in my throat as I discovered they were indeed adults and were both armed with .45 caliber handguns. Have you ever seen a .45? I carried one for three years when I was an MP and they are scary. Especially when you are looking into the business end of one of those monsters.

One of the guys marched me over to the air conditioner unit on the west side of the house just outside the garage and had me take off my glasses and give them to him. Then, he did something strange; he said to me very politely, "I'm putting your glasses here on top of the air conditioner so they'll be easy to find when this is over."

Then he marched me back into my house where his buddy had already subdued my wife, Nancy. Then they tied me up, blindfolded me, gagged me and put me inside a canvas sack.

They also did all this to Nancy except they didn't put her into a sack.

Then, they ransacked the house. They took our "emergency" silver coins, they took a cherished heirloom ring that Nancy had been given by one of her favorite relatives and they took sacks of mail all containing checks from our recent full-page ad in "Parade" magazine.

At this point, Nancy said, "Gary, do something! They're even taking the mail!"

But what was I to do while all tied up inside a canvas bag?

Anyway, they wanted more and they began to threaten us. However, after a while, they were convinced there was nothing else to get and they left, taking my car (a Cadillac naturally) and all the loot they had gathered up including thousands of checks written to "Good News Inc." which were worthless to them. By the way, before they left one of them said, "This is what happens to people who make a lot of money and who live in a big house like this."

Have you ever had anything like this happen to you? I hope not. It's unnerving and much more so than you would think. You know, we're all so used to watching TV we sort of get the impression that, after a violent act, a person just gets up, brushes himself off and goes about his business.

Trust me, it's not like that at all.

I'm no stranger to violence and danger. I grew up in a town that was, during my youth, the most heavily industrialized per capita city on earth. I'm talking about Barberton, Ohio and, back then, it was sometimes, almost like a war zone. In high school, my buddy, "Pompadour Bill," and I would drive around in his father's car and we kept a German Luger and two knurled steel blackjacks in the glove compartment. Then later, when I was an MP, I was sent to Germany and my tour of duty consisted of breaking up massive bar fights and dealing with enraged servicemen and going up against everything from pocket knives to a lunatic with a double-barreled shotgun.

But this was different. This was in my home, my sanctuary, my cave that was supposed to be my "safe place" and secure from the tigers and bears and demons of the night.

And my family was home!

Not only my wife, but my kids too, who were all (thank God!) asleep upstairs.

Anyway, for nearly a year after this, I could hardly sleep. I was already a heavy beer drinker back then and, after the robbery, I began to drink even more heavily. My work suffered, my business went downhill and I knew something had to change.

So, after a year, more or less, of living like this, I sold my business to a tall Texan named Jerry Antill for $15.00 and never bothered to cash the check. By the way, at that time, the business had over 1,000,000 customers and more than $60,000 cash-on-hand plus all its other assets.

What I did next is I moved my family to Los Angeles, California so my wife and I could become patients of the Center for Feeling Therapy which was formed by a group of nine psychotherapists who were formerly associated with the famed Institute of Primal Therapy formed by Arthur Janov.

The founders of the Center for Feeling Therapy were acclaimed worldwide. They were supposed to be the best. They had been on 150 talk shows like Merv Griffin, Johnny Carson (I was in the studio audience), Good Morning America and all the others. They published endless learned articles and, I believe, four hardcover books. When Nancy and I signed up for this "therapy" it was our understanding that in about nine months we would be relieved of all our mental trauma and we'd be able to get on with our lives.

What We Got Instead Was

 

A Three And A Half Year Nightmare.

 

These so-called psychotherapists, all licensed by the State of California, turned out to be the most sophisticated and manipulative mind-benders the free world has ever known. They nearly ruined the lives of hundreds of their patients. They were, (unknown to me at the time), sexually molesting some of the female patients while they were sucking money out of all of us with an efficiency that would've made even Jim Bakker envious.

They controlled your life. Everything from where you worked to where you lived and even to with whom you could sleep.

Let me take a moment here to say that, at this point, you may be saying, "How could any intelligent adult let such a thing happen? That could never happen to me." Well, what I say is you only ask for therapeutic help when you are very vulnerable so...

Don't Be Too Sure.

Don't Be Too Sure.

Don't Be Too Sure.

By the way, all of those "therapists" were subsequently indicted by the California Board of Medical Quality Assurance and they went through the longest malpractice trial in California history and they all lost their licenses and were publicly shamed. If you are interested, you can read about it in the September 30, 1987 edition of the "L.A. Times."

But anyway, I didn't get out of that "therapy" until January, 1978 and while I was in it, my mind was in virtually constant turmoil. And, while in the midst of this mental turmoil in 1976, I was approached by a couple of guys who wanted to go into the mail order business. The idea was to sell a book on "Proud Bi-Centennial Americans" and also a decorative bi-centennial plate. The idea was I'd write the copy and put up the money and these two guys would run the business. well, for a little while, things went fine. We mailed our sales letters, took in orders and started to produce the products both of which, incidentally, had to be personalized.

Then, all of a sudden, everything went bad.

One of our big direct mail rollouts only produced a fraction of the earlier test results to that list. Also, all my income from other sources, for reasons not relevant to this story, almost dried up completely.

In a nutshell, what happened is we ended up with thousands of orders and not enough money to fill them all.

This was certainly a bad situation but it was, I felt at least correctable. You know, at that time, a lot of people had come to know and respect me and I was pretty sure I'd be able to borrow enough money to fill all the orders and make things right.

Alas, this was not to be. What happened next is one of our customers who had not received his order decided to complain and he did so to a local TV station. Well, as you know, the news media is ever hungry for bad news and they sent a camera crew to our offices. The resulting footage was not very dramatic but, when it was aired, we came to the attention of the postal authorities and soon thereafter two postal inspectors came to our offices. Soon they learned that, even though I wasn't the official owner of the business, I was, in fact, the "force" behind the company.

Which was true.

So they wanted to talk to me.

So, not knowing any better, I invited them to my house.

Big mistake. Real BIG! You see, at that time I was living at 637 Pacific Coast Highway, right on the beach in Santa Monica, California. My home was one of only 17 on that stretch of real estate (law forbids the building of any more) and it was truly fantastic. The house next door to me was formerly owned by Peter Lawford and it was the western White House when Kennedy was president. I'm not going to go on and on about my house but I will say it was perhaps the finest home I've ever seen. It had a 50 foot swimming pool and it later became the most expensive home in history ever to be sold at private auction.

So, in come these two postal inspectors, one of whom I can hardly remember and the other whom I'll never forget. The one I'll never forget was a tall, skinny guy with a scraggly mustache who had a look of deprivation about him. In fact, to me, he looked like a guy who'd never had a good meal or a good woman in his entire life.

And guess how he reacted to my home on the beach with its 50 foot heated swimming pool?

You know already, don't you? Let's just say he wasn't exactly overjoyed to see me enjoying the evil fruits of my capitalistic endeavors. During that first meeting, and during subsequent ones, he would slip in comments like, "Well, I guess I'll never know what it's like to live in a house like this." Or, "I'm sorry to have to ask you and your wife to ride in this plain old car but we can't all have Cadillacs."

And so on.

So it begins to look like this is really serious and it's not going to go away so my partners and I hire a lawyer. I can't remember his name. Actually, I only chose him because he was so handy as he was in the same building as our offices. After we explained everything to this lawyer he said it was obvious that none of us ever had any criminal intent (true) and we should open our books and give the postal inspectors any info they wanted.

That was a big mistake. A real BIG mistake!

Look, being investigated is like being interviewed by a TV news team. In other words, if they find out 50 good things about you and one bad thing, it is only the negative that is recorded on their minds and has a chance of going on the air or in their reports.

We were indicted. All three of us. For mail fraud.

What happens next is the postal inspectors have a little chat with my two "co-conspirators" and it is explained to them that if they help the inspectors get me (Mr. Big), they will be allowed to plead guilty to only one count of mail fraud and probably get a suspended sentence.

And, to their eternal shame, those two guys laid down and rolled over. And, in fact...

 

They Were So Scared

They Pled Guilty To A

Crime Of Which They Were Innocent!

 

Perhaps I'd better modify that "innocent" part a bit. According to the law, you are not guilty of any type of fraud, including mail fraud, unless you had "criminal intent." Well, let me tell you, neither of those two guys (or me, for that matter) ever had one smidgen of criminal intent.

On the other hand, the mail fraud statutes are written so broadly it is difficult for anyone who has ever mailed a letter not to be found guilty. It's so bad, in fact, that sometimes, it seems to me anyone who has walked by, driven past, or flown over a U.S. post office is guilty. What this means is that, often, a jury does not have any real choice as to whether or not to find a defendant guilty. You see, what happens is the judge will issue jury instructions that dictate the jury must find you guilty if such and such or so and so occurred.

And since those such and such's and so and so's are so broad in scope...

98% Of All Defendants

Are Found Guilty!

Here's a side story. Once upon a time, in the San Fernando Valley, some paid arsonist torched a restaurant and a couple of people were killed. He was guilty of trespassing, breaking and entering, arson and murder.

And They Got Him

For Mail Fraud!

'Cause somebody, to get the insurance payoff, sent the claim in by mail. And the prosecutors know, if they can't get someone for something else they can almost always get anybody for mail fraud.

On with my story: So, here I am indicted for mail fraud and, in August of 1978, I went to trial. It lasted about a week and guess what was the most persuasive piece of evidence the feds had against me?

It Was My House!

Yep. One of those zealous little public servants stuck a camera over the hedges on the beach side of the property, took a picture, had it blown up to poster size and then forced the jury all week to look at this photo of "Halbert's Beach Villa."

Know this: If you are a successful businessman, there is no such thing as a "jury of your peers." Basically, your fate will be decided by 12 men and women who are "have nots" and who believe all the "haves" got that way be being crooked.

I was convicted.

I was sentenced to 18 months but I was released on my own recognizance, pending appeal. The appeal took three years and, guess what?

I Won!

The trial was, in my opinion, a farce and, unbelievably, the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals seemed to agree. Now what happens when you win an appeal is you are back to square one. What that means is the government has the option of putting you on trial again, dropping the whole thing or else letting you plead not guilty to a much lesser charge.

That third choice, the "plea bargain" is, by far, the most popular choice. And that is what the government decided to do with me, to let me plead guilty to a misdemeanor and pay a fine or something. You see, by this time, the "news value" of "The Big Bi-Centennial Rip-Off" was non-existent and, after everything that came out in the 1978 trial, I think even the prosecutors no longer thought I was such an evil guy.

But this was not to be. And, according to my lawyer, it was because that "from hunger" postal inspector wouldn't let it go.

I don't know if that's true or not. But I do know this: The mental and emotional turmoil of being "in therapy" and fighting these mail fraud charges cause me to go broke around the time of the first trial. However, between 1978 when I filed my appeal and 1981 when I won it, I did something unthinkable:

I Made A Lot Of

Money All Over Again!

And in 1981, when the postal inspector came out to serve me, I was then living at 201 Ocean Avenue in Santa Monica and I owned two apartments there (they're co-ops) which were both worth a ton of money.

Can't have that, can we? No Sir. So, in August of 1981 I got back on trial again. But this time I've got a new lawyer (wait'll you hear about all my wonderful lawyers) and I'm a lot more prepared and I think I'm going to win. The prosecution trots out the picture of the house again but, anticipating this, my lawyer and I have prepared what we think are effective counter arguments.

So, the trial ends on a Wednesday or Thursday afternoon and when the jury walks past me, they actually look friendly and that's a good sign says my lawyer. But the next morning as they walk past me and my lawyer, their heads are down and they won't even look at me and that's a bad sign says my lawyer.

And later, that afternoon, they find me guilty.

And, in an interview, what do they say as to why they found me guilty? "It's the house," they say. "Anybody who was really trying to do right and fill those orders wouldn't have lived in such an expensive house."

"But I thought we explained that," says my lawyer.

"Yeah, but just look at this article that is in this morning's 'Herald Examiner,'" says a lady juror. And she waved it in front of our faces and there was a three page article all about my house complete with pictures, the main one of which was the same one the jury had been forced to look at poster size all week.

What a strange coincidence. Here it is something like six years since I've lived in this house and the "Herald Examiner" which is a morning paper comes out with this long article about the opulence of the house and its furnishings and all the Rolls Royces and other exotic cars parked outside and so forth and it comes out just in time for the jury to see it...

And Take It In The

Jury Room With Them!

Incredible timing, right?

So we immediately ask for a new trial and I'll never forget the judge's face as he denies the motion muttering how he may be wrong but we've got to make sure the appellate court has enough work to keep them busy.

So once again I file an appeal and try to retain my sanity (I never did regain it) as I wait for the outcome.

This time it only takes 2-1/2 years and I lose; I don't see how but I did.

And on May 21, 1984 I reported to Boron Federal Prison Camp ("Club Fed") in the Mojave Desert to start serving my time. I'll tell you a little about that experience in a minute but first two more of my semi famous "side trips."

First, I want to tell you a little about the seven lawyers I used fighting this nightmare. One of them was a respected law professor who wrote both of my appeals. Another was a Mormon who fought his heart out for me but could not overcome the impact of the newspaper story about my house. Another one did almost no preparation for my case and he was eventually disbarred. Another one is the naive, young guy who told me to freely give the postal inspectors any info they wanted. Another one was too busy laundering drug money to be of any real help to me and, besides, he was found shot dead in the Century Plaza shopping center while clutching a paper bag full of paper money. Another, reputed to be a "fix it" lawyer, was indicted along with a local judge for obstructing justice.

I Sure Can Pick 'Em Can't I?

The seventh attorney was Howard Weitzman. Remember him? He's the guy who won for DeLorean and the only attorney in this story who I have decided to mention by name. You know, I really have a lot of respect for this guy. Here's why: When I asked him to do some post-conviction work for me he said...

 

"Gary, you ought to get someone else because other lawyers will do it cheaper than me and you don't have much of a chance anyway."

 

I could hardly believe it; honesty from a lawyer? So I hired him, he gave it his best shot, I lost and paid him willingly and never regretted it simply because...

He Was Straight With Me!

By the way, I talked to him on the phone from Boron the day after DeLorean was acquitted and I told him that, when the verdict was announced, the whole camp burst into applause!

Isn't this a bitch of a story? Hold on. You ain't heard nothing yet. Let's take side trip #2.

Away we go. After my conviction in 1978, while I was on appeal, I did some work for a publisher back East. What I did is I wrote a diet ad for him that featured a San Diego M.D. (a psychiatrist) that became one of the highest pulling ads in history.

Considering my situation, I was very careful about what I wrote. I checked and double-checked with the doctor to make sure the ad was accurate.

The money started coming in like crazy and the guy back East couldn't keep up with the orders. I literally begged him to slow down, to stop advertising till he got caught up. To no avail. He got thousands of orders behind, many of which were four months overdue. And guess what? Yep. He got indicted, I got indicted and the doctor got indicted...

On An Ad I Thought Was "Hound's Tooth Clean"!

Those indictments were later dropped but they massively interfered with my mental peace and also prevented me from bringing in character witnesses during my second trial.

Lord, love a duck; I was starting to feel like a one-legged man in an ass-kicking contest.

But so what? What can be learned from all this that is of practical value to you?

A lot. Assuming you don't want to be robbed, incarcerated or swamped with the emotional and financial trauma of litigation, I herewith offer 10 rules for your consideration:

 

 

#1.

	STOP LIVING IN A DREAM WORLD!

 

Stuff like this really can happen to you. People who never take any risks are boring cowards but people who take stupid risks are, in fact, stupid. Consider this: The news is full of stories about the dangers of AIDS yet, by far, the #1 and #2 most common preventable cause of death in the U.S. are cigarette smoking and not wearing a seat belt. Yet millions of dummies still smoke and ride around sans safety belts while mouthing banal quips about how everybody has to die of something.

Trust me, Buckwheat, if you get lung cancer or permanently mangled and/or paralyzed in a car crash, the memory of all those cute little banalities you used to say will make you vomit.

And so it is with taking unnecessary chances in your advertising campaigns. No one is in complete control of his or her destiny but, for God's sake, don't beg for problems like I did. You'll get enough problems no matter how careful you are without insisting on having more.

#2.

	STOP LYING!

To your customers, to your partners or business associates and to yourself. If you lie in your direct mail letters and/or space ads or commercials, the one time you get caught may easily cause you more grief than it was worth for the hundreds of times you slipped by.

And hear this: In the last 1-1/2 years I've met three different people who routinely cheat everybody they do business with. Well, let me tell you, one thing I learned while serving time is that not everybody who gets cheated elects to right that wrong via litigation. Instead, many choose mayhem or murder. But you don't really believe any of those wimps you've ever shortchanged would do anything like put out a "contract" on you, do you?

Don't Be Too Sure.

Don't Be Too Sure.

Don't Be Too Sure.

#3.

	IMMEDIATELY ACKNOWLEDGE EVERY ORDER YOU RECEIVE VIA FIRST CLASS MAIL!

Pound-for-pound, penny-for-penny, this is the most profitable point in all your communications with your customers. But profit is not the issue here. No. The issue here is staying out of trouble. And, believe me, nobody represents more "trouble potential" than a customer who has sent in his hard-earned money and feels it has disappeared down a rathole because no one ever bothered to confirm or acknowledge his order.

#4.

	FILL ALL ORDERS AS FAST AS YOU CAN!

Both times I got in trouble with the post office, it was because of unfilled orders. Had the orders been filled and filled promptly the ads and letters would most probably never been questioned. Whether a certain statement in an ad or letter is deceptive is often subjective. However, there is nothing subjective about an unfilled order.

You either did or you didn't and, if you didn't, you are begging for trouble.

#5.	

IMMEDIATELY GIVE A REFUND TO ANYONE WHO WANTS ONE!

Stop screwing around with this. If you say you'll give refunds, do it and do it promptly. If you don't one day you may end up with a problem that can no longer be solved even if you do finally decide to make refunds. The problem I'm talking about, of course, is the one where you become a convicted felon.

#6.	IMMEDIATELY ANSWER ALL YOUR WHITE MAIL!

"White mail" is any written correspondence from a customer that does not contain an order; like requests for more info, requests for refunds, inquiries from BBBs and government agencies, etc.

Failure to communicate can lead to a loss of ability to communicate like, for example, when you're locked up.

#7.	

DON'T RUB YOUR WEALTH IN OTHER PEOPLE'S FACES!

 

Showing off is one of the "perks" of being a success. However, I'd like to suggest you avoid trying to impress people who are losers. Losers are bitter, frustrated people who are constantly looking for new people to blame for their failures. And, if their bitterness becomes too intense and their focus settles on you, only trouble can result.

Go ahead and drive your Rolls to a meeting of the Young Millionaires Club but beware parking in the K-Mart lot.

#8.	

DON'T TRUST YOUR LIFE TO A LAWYER!

 

I don't care if he's your brother, your father or you spouse. It seems to me that almost all lawyers are forced to have an "ethical bypass" operation as soon as they pass the bar. Question: What show has the most ridiculous premise of all shows on network TV? Answer: L.A. Law. L.A. Law always has a bunch of lawyers sitting around discussing lofty ethical considerations.

Are you kidding? That's not what lawyers sit around and gab about. No way. What they truly concern themselves with is...

Milking Money

From Misery!

But what's the alternative? Well, what I suggest is, in addition to your lawyer, you get some "reality oriented" advice from someone who has already suffered through whatever legal problems you currently have. Believe me, you can get more sound advice from a few intelligent ex-cons than all the lawyers in the world.

Hey, you want to know how you can tell when your lawyer is lying? That's easy. It's when his lips are moving.

#9.	KEEP YOURSELF HEALTHY!

If you pump a little iron and run three or four miles a day, you'll unconsciously give off a different class of vibes that signal you're not a vulnerable wounded fish and easy prey for all the two-legged sharks of the world.

#10.	KEEP YOUR SENSE OF HUMOR!

You think I've had it hard? Don't be silly. What I've endured is nothing compared to a kid born with AIDS, a man who has lost his family in an air disaster or any of a jillion other things that millions of people endure bravely every day of their lives.

Look, if history is any guide, none of us are gonna get out of this mess alive so we may as well have a few laughs along the way.

Want to know when you finally realize it really has happened and you really are incarcerated? It's when that big, ugly, muscle-bound guy across the hall informs you he thinks you're "cute."

Want to know when you know you've done too much time? It's when you're glad he thinks you're cute!

Thank God I wasn't in long enough to get to the second stage but, I'll tell you, I learned what it means to really miss your woman and I remembered why my nickname used to be "Goat Glands Gary."

Enough. Someone once said every man's life has value if for nothing else than to be used as a bad example. Maybe that's me. You're a dumb bunny if you follow my footsteps. Instead, let me serve you another way...

 

Let Me Be Your

Bad Example!

 	 
 	

 

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
 	 
P.S.	Are you one of those people who take chances because going to "Club Fed" sounds like a vacation to you? Trust me, there are a few things about it you won't like. For example, do you have a tendency to befoul the atmosphere and make funny little noises when you use the bathroom?How wonderful! Just think, when you go to Club Fed you can "share" those quaint little personal eccentricities with dozens of other people everyday who will be going to the bathroom with you! And gosh, you can also enjoy all their quaint little personal bathroom habits.Are you someone who values your privacy? Hmn? I wonder how you're going to like it when some hack tells you to "bend over and spread 'em" so he can explore your most private bodily cavity with this flashlight.

And don't think that, just because Club Fed is a camp, it only has white collar felons. That's not the case. There are also bank robbers, drug dealers, blackmailers, contract killers and many, plain old garden variety murderers.

Oh yeah, and there's one more bad thing about Club Fed.

You Can't Leave!


P.P.S.	

On the other hand, I think going to Club Fed was easily the most valuable experience of my life. One of the reasons is that, in a perverse way, it set me free. One day I was jogging and I suddenly realized I felt much lighter. Why? Because of lack of guilt. You see, I figured that serving time for something of which I was not morally guilty made me even. It made up for all those library books I never returned, the teenage girls after whom I lusted and I was even able to forgive myself for all those times I drove while drinking for which, in my opinion, I really deserved to go to prison.

Sometimes life evens things up, doesn't it?

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2005 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Disaster Insurance!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zkzd_disaster_insurance.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I hope you have finished reading (and found value) in my last newsletter which was mostly about doing business with "The Bank For Insane People".

That was the one inside the envelope icon with the title "I Deserve A Black Belt In Self-Pity!"... which... was  written about ten days ago.

But, you know what I hope even more? I hope you also read the other newsletter I told you to read titled "The Dark Side Of Success". You didn't know it when you read it but, that newsletter was completed and mailed out on February 6, 1988 which is...

More Than 15 Years Ago!

What I had to say in that letter is just as important NOW... as it was way back then. Actually, maybe even more so today.

During my forced vacation at "Club Fed" (Boron Federal Prison Camp) I wrote what is very likely the most important book anyone in America will ever read. It is also probably the most... valuable... book anyone will ever read. It was written under very difficult circumstances and it will give anyone who reads it an instant money-making education... the likes of which... is rather astonishing.

And, it is very personal. It was written specifically for my youngest son, Bond. It is perhaps, the most precious gift I have ever given him... and... the most precious gift... anyone else could possess.

That book has turned into a virtual "cult classic". Many businessmen keep it with them 100% of the time. Wherever they travel, the book is always in their briefcase so they can have access to its wisdom any time and any place they need it.

Enough build-up. Let's get to it. Listen: As you read in "The Dark Side Of Success", I've had a lot of strange things happen to me. I've been robbed, tied up, gagged, blindfolded, threatened and so on. I've made and lost millions. I've been eulogized, ostracized and plagiarized. I've also (as explained in that newsletter), been both a prison guard and a prison inmate.

Do you still remember all that prison stuff I wrote about in "The Dark Side of Success"? It was ugly. As you may recall, I told you how I got involved with insane psychotherapists, mad-dog postal inspectors and a trio of lawyers. One of those lawyers was gunned down (literally), another was eventually disbarred, and the other was indicted along with his "crime partner" who was a judge. I also told you how I went through seven long years of "nightmare litigation" and how, after two trials, two appeals and one Supreme Court appeal, I got stuck serving 10 months in a federal prison camp in Boron, California for a crime that, in fact, in a moral sense, never even occurred.

Whatever. I think you'll agree with me when I say that newsletter was not a bunch of "woe is me" sniveling. No. That particular newsletter was instructive. It showed you why innocence is not enough and why you should watch out for a lot of "legal horrors" which can befall you... even if... your business is totally on the up-and-up and you personally are as honest as the day is long.

Strangely enough, that little vacation I had at "Club Fed" turned out to be (honestly) the most valuable experience I've ever had. I met some of the most intelligent, wealthiest, most creative and sometimes, some of the nicest people you could ever imagine. Not only that, it gave me time to write out a "crash course" in direct marketing for my youngest son who, for some insane reason, has decided to follow in his old man's footsteps.

So, toward this end, I wrote him a series of 25 long letters which contain, all in all, the most concise, hardest-hitting, no-holds-barred, direct marketing education available anywhere on this planet. These letters contain 196 handwritten pages of dynamite info!

But let me tell you this: These letters are raw. They pull no punches!

You know, when you are serving time, you don't feel much like pussy-footing around. Prison conversations go right for the jugular. So do these letters! What I was trying to do here was, give my son the fastest, most impactful education that can be transmitted by the written word.

I dare say I succeeded.

These letters contain a "stripped down" version of the most important secrets I've learned about how to sell by direct marketing. They explain exactly how to develop a "killer" ad or direct mail package right from the ground up. They teach you how to develop a "can't lose" marketing appeal. These letters cover everything from postage to layout; offer development and list selection; how to create a winning game plan... and... everything I wrote in this book will also help you create a profitable website. Here is a little more of what you will learn when you read this book:

s	The basics of writing good copy!
s	The fine points of writing good copy!
s	What really makes people buy!
s	How to lead your reader by the hand!
s	Why you never get a second chance to make a first
impression...and... why you must "hook" your reader from the moment he sees your copy!
s	How to give your ads and letters the right "look"!
s	Secrets of order-pulling layouts!
s	An essay on closing the sale!
s	Exactly how to ask for an order!
s	What you can learn about advertising from Alex Haley and his book Roots!
s	How to make your copy clear and readable!
s	The surest way to become a "big money" writer!
s	Why you should write for money... and not... for applause!
s	What to do when you don't know what to do!
s	How to turn a losing catalog into a multi-million dollar success!
s	HALT: How memorizing that acronym can keep you out of a lot of trouble!
s	A prison inmate's "street smart" survival kit!
s	Why "make a bushel of money" works better than "increase your income"!
s	Six secrets of special deals you can write about in your letters!
s	A little trick every copywriter should know!
s	7 exact steps to direct mail success!
s	The most common marketing mistakes made by beginners!
s	How to keep going when the going is hard!
s	How to imprint the process of writing good ad copy on your nerves, muscle fibers, brain cells and every part of your physical and mental being!
s	An emotional "tool kit" which can save your life!
s	The most important key to making really serious money!
s	How to become a student of markets!
s	  How to use the SRDS list book to make a fortune!
s	A discussion of a 156-million-dollar promotion!
s	Cheap research: How to make sure you'll hit the right nerve!
s	Examples of winning formulas and "double customization"!
s	How to get flowing again when you're stuck!
s	How to discover the right central selling idea!
s	How to use envelopes to "induce guilt"!
s	A good "boilerplate" P.S. which can make you money!
s	How to get orders from people who have already decided not to order!
s	The best attention grabbers in the world!
s	How to make your reader "picture with pleasure" what you are trying to sell!
s	The ultimate layout for an order coupon!
s	8 things you should have at hand before you start to write an ad or direct mail piece!
s	What you must always include in your marketing research!
s	How to manufacture the "aha!" experience!

There's an awful lot more but, that should be enough to give you the idea. These letters read like greased lightning. Sometimes, when I was writing them, it was 114 degrees outside and I would be surrounded by every imaginable kind of felon. Coke dealers. Mafia hit men. Common murderers. Motorcycle maniacs. Bank robbers. Embezzlers. And so on.

I didn't have time for chaff. These letters are all wheat. They contain the most intense personal stuff I've ever written. It took me a while to make up my mind, but finally, I decided to publish and release them. They are collected between grim black covers and I titled them simply:

"The Boron Letters"

A few days ago, I saw an illegal, pirated copy of MY book for sale on the Internet (in damaged condition) for $225.00. I am now offering my book, "The Boron Letters" (in mint condition) for sale myself to all of my subscribers for a mere $97.00 and nothing extra for shipping and handling.

I have a mixture of motives for making this offer. In addition to the obvious one, I have another very conceited reason for wanting you to read this book. What is this "conceited" reason? It's simple...

I Want To
Show Off!

You see, if you think the information you have read so far in my newsletters is hot and valuable, just wait till you read the "advanced" (and sometimes sneaky) money-making info that comes in my book, "The Boron Letters".

"The Boron Letters" have been read by a very select group of people all over the world... and...

Many Of Them Say
That Book Has Made Them Rich!

Not only that, "The Boron Letters" are the most heartfelt messages I've ever written. It would be impossible for anyone to love anybody more than I love my children. And, in this case, I was trying to give my progeny the two most precious gifts I have to offer: My love and my expertise.

This book also contains a lot of wisdom on staying healthy and prospering in a mean world. I don't know if you have children or not but, if you do, you could do a lot worse than giving each of them a copy of this book.

Just one more thing: This book was written in a rather harsh environment and it contains a fair amount of profanity. I guess that's indicative of where I was and how I was feeling when I wrote it.

There are two ways you can order this book: The first way is to write your check in the amount of $97.00 payable to "Cherrywood Publishing" and send it to:

Cherrywood Publishing
3101 S.W. 34th Ave. #905-467
Ocala, FL  34474

If you do that, we will send your book immediately by First-Class Priority Mail...

Or... You Can Order It By Credit Card
And Be Reading The Book In The Next 15-Minutes!

Here's how it works: All you have to do is call my personal voicemail at 1-305-866-3613. When you do that, you will hear my voice saying, "Hi, this is Gary Halbert. Thank you for calling this voicemail to order a copy of my book called 'The Boron Letters'. What I need you to do is speak slowly and clearly and leave your name and the type of credit card you are using to place your order. We accept Visa, MasterCard, or American Express. I also need the credit card number, the expiration date and the billing address of your credit card. Plus, I need you to leave me your e-mail address. As soon as I have all this information, I will send you a personal e-mail with an attachment you can download that contains every single page of my book, 'The Boron Letters'. And, unless I am in a meeting or sleeping or something like that, you can actually be reading my book within the next 15-minutes. Thank you again for your order and trusting me enough to order my book in this fashion."

Okay, after you hear that message, do just like it says and, almost instantly, I guarantee you will be reading the most fascinating book ever written.


 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert


A Caring Father


P.S.	

I bet if you search long and hard on the Internet, you can find someone who will sell you a copy of my book for less than the $97.00 I am charging for it. However, even if this turns out to be true, you should still order the book from me... because... you will also get an extra bonus that just might turn out to be the most valuable bonus you have ever received in your entire life!

Please let me describe it for you. If you ever find yourself in a situation like the one described in "The Dark Side Of Success", I will give you inside personal information on how to deal with those problems. And let me tell you something, in these kinds of situations, the information you can get from an intelligent ex-con (like me) is more valuable than all the information you could get from 100 high-paid lawyers. Most likely, I will be able to give you some information which will put an immediate end to the nightmare you are experiencing. If I can't do that, the information I give you will almost certainly result in your paying a lot less in lawyer fees... and... if worse comes to worse... that information will probably result in a much-lighter sentence (and probably no sentence at all) than you would have received otherwise. Let me tell you something: Your lawyer is NOT on your side. But, if you ever need it, I WILL be on your side. And, I will give you inside information which can literally save your ass.

Speaking of "saving your ass" a lot of men worry about getting raped if they are sent to prison. Quite frankly, that's a valid thing to worry about. But, if the worse case scenario does ever occur (you being sent to prison), you can get information from me which will give you a 99% chance of avoiding even this nightmare.

However, here's something you need to know. If you ever do need me to give you this kind of help, I will give it to you free... but... I will NOT give it to you over the telephone. I will NOT give it to you in a letter. I will NOT give it to you via the Internet. If you ever need this kind of information, you are going to have to come to me and you and I will strip down to our bathing suits and take a little dip in a pool or the ocean. It is only when we are in the water and I am absolutely certain you are not taping the conversation, that I will reveal to you these secrets which you will so desperately need to know.

Think about it: You can probably buy my book ("The Boron Letters") from somewhere else for less money (if you can find it) but, if you buy it from me and buy it immediately, the bonus I am offering you (if you ever need it) is the most important "disaster insurance" you could ever have.

One last thing: Don't you dare think terrible things like this will never happen to you because you don't ever do anything wrong. You don't have to do anything "wrong" to have horrible shit happen to you like I described in "The Dark Side Of Success". In the United States today, "innocence" is no longer a defense against anything.

Order the book now. As I tell all my clients, when it comes to preparing for a disaster...

It Is Better To Be Years Too Early...
Than... One Minute Too Late!

Peace.



Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Private Details About The Life Of Gary Halbert! What's Good About The Best Of Them!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zjkl_whats_good.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I must confess, I've changed my mind about what I was going to write about in this month's newsletter.

Why? The answer is simple. You see, last month I invited all my subscribers to write a car ad (mostly, just for practice) and send it to me. I told them I would award a nice prize to whoever wrote the best ad. Well, so many people have sent in their ads -- and so many of them are so good -- I've decided it would be very helpful (from a copywriting point of view) if I told you what's good about the best of them.

First of all, one of the ideas I try to hammer home over over and over is that... copywriting is secondary to the creation of a powerful, believable offer. And so, the first ad I'm going to discuss here is one that did not win because it is not the most "well-written" and, after all, this is a copywriting contest. However, this particular entry contains perhaps the best ideas of everything submitted. And, when push comes to shove, I'd rather have a great idea man on my team any day, as opposed to having a great copywriter. So, I want to respectfully tip my hat and congratulate...

Ronald Brekke...

who gave as a reason for selling his car that he got involved in a tax shelter that went bad and the IRS stung him with $6,000 in back taxes plus $6,000 in penalties. But you know what else he did? Something that was pure genius? No. Of course you don't so I'll tell you: To back up his claim, he sent (in a plain white sealed envelope) a copy of his "NOTICE OF UNPAID TAX" that was whomped on him by the IRS. It's official looking as hell and it looks real because it is real. I'm reproducing it below:

Whoa! Now, how's that for drama? And even more importantly, how's that for believability? I've said it before and I'll say it again: The number one reason people don't buy from you is they don't want what you are selling. But, the number two reason is...

They Don't Believe You!

Strive for believability. It is supremely important.

But, that wasn't Mr. Brekke's only good idea. No, sir. He also offered to buy the car back from you if maintained properly because, in fact, he really didn't want to sell it. And that's why, of course, he was also offering $1,214 worth of free maintenance while you drove the car so...

It Would Be In Great Condition
When It Was Time To Buy It Back!

He also was the only contestant to think to send a "follow up" letter and, in this pitch, he went on to explain how his situation was even more dire because now the IRS was threatening to seize his property. And this time he included (in the proverbial sealed envelope) the United States Seizure Notice! See below:

And that's not all. He also sent a reprint of a Reader's Digest article on "How You Can Save on Car Insurance" which explains "six easy ways to lower your premiums and still get the protection you need." (Like maybe buying a car like Mr. Brekke's?)

He also offered a premium for the first 10 people who stopped to look at his car. The premium was a booklet titled, "18 Major Health Discoveries to Add 10 Years to Your Life".

Like I said, Mr. Brekke did not win because this was a copywriting contest but he did such a fantastic job I've decided to give him a nice prize anyway!

(However, Mr. Brekke, you've got me hooked and you don't get your prize until I get that booklet on health discoveries.)

More good stuff. From Travis McFee, D.D.S. in Salem, Oregon. He explains he'll sell his Chevy Caprice at below Kelly Blue Book wholesale because he can't trade it in because he (and a group of professionals) are banding together to buy a bunch of Mercedes wholesale direct from Germany. And then...

He Invites You To Get In On
That Action If You Don't Want The Caprice!

Clever. Good thinking.

And here's a good reason for responding now to the P.S. of the sales letter written by Martin Choy...

"The trip to Lake Tahoe includes reservations to see Frank Sinatra but reservations must be confirmed within 10 days."

So why does Trapper John, M.D. (sounds like a TV show, doesn't it?) say he is offering such a good deal on a new luxury pick-up? Simply because...

He gave it to his kid as a graduation present and the kid was not properly appreciative so he (Trapper) wanted to teach the kid a lesson!

I've felt like that, haven't you?

Here's another good idea for getting action now from the P.S. of the letter written by Kevin Brandes. Kevin offers as a premium a free trip to the Indy 500 (he's selling a Corvette) and his P.S. says:

"The free trip to the Indy 500 has to be confirmed because of the airlines being booked solid...

A really well-written ad (from a copywriting point-of-view) was sent in by Lynn Stratford. Lynn is selling a 1950 Studebaker (I wonder if it's blue and white like the one my Dad had?) and he makes some very good points including:

*	This beauty will never depreciate in value -- only appreciate. (That's what's called an investment.)
*	He offers to pay your dues to join the Studebaker's Driver's Club.
*	He says he'll give you a shop manual and six catalogs that'll tell you where to get all the parts you need for this beauty.

This one is really a rock-solid, exceptional piece of work but it irritates me because now I'm seriously thinking about buying this car myself!

David C. Smith of Laguna Beach sent in a good letter to sell his 450 SLC Mercedes that comes complete with...

A Car Phone!

Nice touch!

You know, I can hardly imagine I would ever want to own a Gremlin but the sales letter written by Robert Robinson in Washington, DC really had me on the ropes. This letter is a borderline masterpiece and by the time he's done you really do wonder why he's willing to sell it! Here's how he explains it:

"The truth is I need $2,000 to use as a down payment on a piece of property. I plan to renovate and sell this property for a $12,000 profit (minimum) all within six months. As soon as I close this deal I will give you (the happy owner of a classic blue Gremlin) a phone call asking to purchase the car back for $3,200. This will give you a $1,200 profit for just driving a beautiful car. Let me say that you are not obligated in any way to sell the car back to me at any time, but it just may be a future convenience for both of us."

Very, very good.

Don Brown, a preacher from Kerman, California did an excellent job writing his letter and he's one of only two of my subscribers who thought to include a photo of the vehicle (station wagon) he wants to sell.

Why didn't the rest of you think to do this?

Shame, shame.

Here's a sample of some of the excellent copywriting done by Danny Van Meter of Klamath Falls, Oregon: (Klamath Falls?)

"I could take it in to a dealer but, to be honest, I'd rather deal with a real human being instead of some guy in alligator shoes who is more interested in how much commission he's going to make off me than to make a fair deal for all."

Excellent work.

Linwood Austin of Santa Barbara, California is the only contestant who used a particularly valuable ploy which I've always found to be useful: "...if you are not going to take advantage of this offer, call me to let me know. Then I will feel free to offer it to one of the other rental companies..."

Good thinking, Linwood!

One of the best letters of all was submitted by Nina Harper of Long Beach, California:

"There is not a single ding in the paint. The interior is immaculate  and has never been smoked in." (Great point!)

"Ordinarily, I wouldn't consider selling this car, however circumstances force me to do so. I am in escrow to buy a business and I'm selling everything that isn't nailed down to come up with the payment."

Way to go, Nina!

Look, I'm running out of space and I want to reproduce the winning letter before I close. However, I would like to at least acknowledge some of the other entries that were very, very good. One of them came from Mark W. Goggin who owns Golden State Envelope in Los Angeles. (By the way, I highly recommend him if you need to buy envelopes and his number is 213/461-3044.)

Let's see now... who else did a good job? Well, there's R. Quinn of Forth Worth, Texas. Ken Jensen of Mesquite, Nevada. Allen Merkley of Long Sault (Long Sault?), Ontario. Thelma J. Larson of Covina, California. John A. Van Koevering of Las Vegas. Philip S. Bushee of Burlington, Vermont (sent $5 as a grabber!). Kenneth W. Ritchie of Summit, New York. Norman Kominsky Jr. of Paulsboro, New Jersey. Dave Gregory of Thousand Oaks, California (great writing). Geoffrey B. Cook of Jameston, Rhode Island. Dawar A. Shah of West Covina, California. John App of San Juan Capistrano, California.

And the winner is...

But wait! Before I tell you I want to make an observation. It seems to me that, often, the people who had the most writing ability did not come across as sincere as some of the letter writers with less facility. Some of the letters were well-written but "cute". And, they were tarnished by an obvious attempt to be clever.

Enough of that. Now, in my judgment, the best letter of all was submitted by a guy from Kirkland, Oregon named:

Don Jenne

His headline is virtually irresistible and his copy, although short, is absolutely compelling! And, I tell you, whoever is in charge of marketing this new car is a fool if they don't hire this man. Here's his letter:

Amazing Car Of The Future Uses No Gas, Oil Or Water!

The car of the future has zero pollution, uses not a cent of gasoline and require no tune-ups or oil changes. The only maintenance required are things like brake work, wheel alignment and tires.

Today, 20% of the car business is from the sales of new cars and 80% comes from the parts and repair industry. The introduction of this car will turn this upside down. The bottom line is that this is a car you won't have to worry about. The original prototype required less than $1,000 spent on maintenance in seven years of driving. This amazing car can travel 100 miles an hour, go 400 to 500 miles on a battery charge and never needs a tune-up. The car will be featured in a 1990 James Bond-type film like the Aston Martin in Goldfinger.

The car will be for sale early next year. The first model will be a futuristic sports car followed by a mini-van and a passenger sedan. Does driving one of these cars interest you? Or, would you like to become a dealer? The car itself is so spectacular that all you have to do to sell it is drive it. Grab yourself a piece of the future by calling 206/823-8539 or send $75 for an extensive information package including a video and dealer information. Send to: Don Jenne, 13307 103rd Lane N.E. #H101, Kirkland, WA 88034.

Great job, Don! We'll be contacting you soon about your prize and, I want you to know, you've won out over some monstrously stiff competition.

Congratulations!

Oh, and there's just one more thing. Listen, you klutz: You sent your letter in handwritten which means it almost didn't get read.

Don't do that ever again, Don. It is truly hiding your flame under a basket. It's like Rachael Welsh wearing a mu-mu.

Oh well, nobody's perfect.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert


"The Teacher of Titans"


P.S.	

I have doubts. Maybe Don shouldn't have won. Maybe I should've given first prize to another entry which you will find by clicking on the link below.  Read it and tell me what you think.

Another Entry Which Maybe Should've Won


P.P.S.	

Next month's letter will be something I've been working on for a long time. It'll probably be the most useful letter I'll ever write. It's one you'll want to keep with you all the time and to use constantly as a money-making tool extraordinaire!

Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Please Unload Weapons And Remove Ski Masks!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zlzz_ski_masks.htm

NOTICE!
This is a
DOUBLE ISSUE!

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I propose the U.S. Government hire me to be used as a secret weapon against whatever country we happen to be pissed off at in any given week.

I would be more effective and destructive (and much less hassle and expense) than hundreds of cruise missiles or thousands of armed troops.

Remember when I last wrote you? How I was sitting in my rented trailer (built by Desi Arnez during a drunken spree in the 1930's) and I was waiting for Hurricane Debby to come pounding ashore and tear the living shit out of the Florida Keys? Remember how I even published for your perusal the "Keys Tourism Advisory #2" (Emergency Evacuation Notice) which had just been issued by the "powers-that-be" in the Monroe County Government?

While writing that newsletter, my son, Bond called and begged me to leave the Keys. He had been watching the Weather Channel and it said Hurricane Debby was on the verge of coming ashore directly where I was located with winds up to 135 miles per hour.

I refused to leave. Frankly, I'm getting tired of God pushing me around just for laughs and using horrible weather as His tool of choice. So guess what?

As soon as one of God's snitches reported to Him, "Halbert knows the hurricane is coming, he says he's tired of running from natural disasters... and... he refuses to leave the Keys," God then says to Himself, "Ah shit, stop the hurricane and I'll come up with something else."

And, in less than three hours after the evacuation notice, the hurricane stops being a hurricane, the winds die down to nothing fiercer than a tropical storm... and... what little weather disturbance was left went ashore someplace else and not the Florida Keys.

But God is a clever devil. Just wait until you hear how he figured out a new way to show me He's still the BOSS... and... I suspect... get back at me for refusing to run from Hurricane Debby which He had planned to send my way.

Shortly after Hurricane Debby is forgotten, my houseboat is finally ready for its sea trial and I have it motored up to a great marina which happens to be North of Jewfish Creek. It takes about three weeks for the workers to get it ready for me to move on board... and so... I decide to move into a hotel near the Miami Airport while the workers are doing all the stuff they gotta do.

A few days after I check into the hotel, a different tropical storm starts to drench Miami. At the time, I happened to be traveling with Scott "Mongo" Haines and he remarks he's never seen rain like this before. I hardly notice. It's nothing compared to all the other "shit storms" of weather God has been throwing at me.

But then, I do start to notice. It's more like a waterfall hitting us than rain. I start paying attention to the T.V. which informs me this is the worst rain in Florida's history. The T.V. says the absolute dead epicenter of the worst of the rainfall from this tropical storm is pouring over the intersection of Highway 836 and LeJeune Road in Miami.

The hotel in which I am staying is located at the intersection of Highway 836 and LeJeune Road in Miami.

How much rain did we get? I'm glad you asked.

We Got More Rain In One Day... Than...
California Gets In An Entire Year!

At least this year, we got... in one day... 18 inches of rain!

Do you have any idea how much rain that is? If it were snow, it would be almost 200 inches. Cars were stranded all over the city. A State of Emergency was declared. More people died and there was more property damage than was caused by Hurricane Irene which is the one that drove me out of my home in the Keys last year. Thousands of people were desperate. They were surrounded by water yet, they had none that was drinkable. No food. They couldn't get medical supplies. Their homes were devastated. Some of them won't recover for years.

Do you care?

Of course not. Unless you live in Florida, you probably didn't even have a clue about just how bad it really was. But, you know who could be made to care? Kosovo. Bosnia. Iraq. The Palestinians.

Here's what I say: Pull all our troops out of foreign countries. Order all our battleships back home. Forget the missiles and "smart bombs." No need for all that. Instead...

Just Send Halbert In!

Don't tell God why. Just tell Him I'm going on vacation or something. Then, as soon as I get to wherever the government sends me, God will pick me up on His radar screen and send in a hurricane, shake the place apart with an earthquake, pour an ocean of rain on that geographic location... or maybe...

Even Send In
A Plague Of Locusts!

Cheap, easy, effective and certain.

Enough.

The previous issues of this year's newsletter could fairly be called "Copywriting 101." I've given my readers everything they need to know to write at least an average ad or sales letter. In this issue, I'm going to add the icing on the cake and give you two final (at least for now) secrets about copywriting which can take your efforts over-the-top.

To do this (at the least the first part), I've got to tell you a few stories. Don't try to figure out the point of the stories or where they are going. It'll all come together for you in the end. In the meantime, just sit back and enjoy the ride. It'll be a good read.

Let me start with that hotel I stayed in during the "Big Rain." It's called the "Miami Airport Hilton." It's very nice and beside it, in fact, connected to it, is another hotel called the "Marriott Courtyard." Connected to that hotel is yet another hotel called the "Marriott Fairfield Inn." While I was staying at the (main) Marriott, I decided to check out the other two hotels.

The Marriott Courtyard had rooms which, as far as I could tell, were exactly the same as the main Marriott... except... they cost less.

The Fairfield, also as best as I could tell, had rooms exactly like the main Marriott, except those room cost even less than either the Marriott main hotel or the Marriott Courtyard.

This seemed strange to me so I asked the desk clerk at the Fairfield about it. He was stumbling around trying to explain it in a rational way to me but, not much of what he was saying was making sense. Then, a wisened and seasoned old businessman standing at the same counter spoke up, "I'll tell you what the difference is," he said. "There is none. The Fairfield Inn is the biggest secret in Miami. You get exactly the same thing you get at the Marriott or the Marriott Courtyard, only the Fairfield costs about half as much."

That businessman was almost 100% correct. But, he had overlooked something. When you stay at the main Marriott Hotel, the USA Today newspaper is waiting for you outside your door every morning when you wake up. However, the other two hotels don't deliver USA Today.

Maybe that explains the difference between $68 per night and $178 per night?

Another story: Before I left the Keys with my houseboat, I was living in it at Mile Marker 59 at Peg Leg's Marine Center. My houseboat had three phone lines going into it for my phone, fax and computer. My telephone line was set up with Bell South voicemail because I wanted people to be able to leave me a message if I was either away from the phone or actually tying up the line.

But then some work needed to be done on my houseboat which required me to vacate the premises. I end up staying a few days in the Hidden Harbor Motel in Marathon, Florida which is located at Mile Marker 49. This also is the same location as the world-famous "turtle hospital" where sick and/or injured sea turtles go for relief, therapy and medical treatment for whatever ails them.

I was delighted when I saw my room. It was "smallish" but clean. Cable T.V. Good water pressure in the shower. And... miracle of miracles... a phone! "Can people call me in my room?" I hopefully ask the front desk clerk.

"Well, not really," explains the clerk. "They can call me here at the front desk and leave a message for you. We'll write you a note and stick it here on our bulletin board."

Hey, it's better than nothing. Besides, they comment I can make local calls for free and long distance calls by credit card. Hot Damn! Now I can at least talk to some of my friends and clients by phone.

Read very carefully here and pay attention. Let's suppose some dipshit like Joe Polish calls me on my regular telephone (not the motel phone) and leaves a voicemail message like, "Hey Jerky, this is Joe. Give me a call back." Imagine this scene:  Gary ensconced at the Hidden Harbor Motel... surrounded by six psychotic turtles... trying to get his voicemail messages. I pick up the phone in my room and press zero. I tell the operator I want to make a credit card call. She thanks me for choosing (I swear this is true) the New York Coin Telephone Company to make this long distance call, and asks which credit card I want to use.

"Visa," I reply.

"Sorry. Visa is one of the credit cards we do not accept," she informs me. Then she rattles off the names of a bunch of credit cards I never even knew existed, and which, needless to say, I didn't have.

Since it's not the essence of coolness to call your clients collect, I ask her if I purchased a pre-paid phone card from a convenience store, could I make calls that way.

Turns out, I can... so... I trot down to the nearest Arab-owned piece of shit convenience store and purchase a handful of phone cards. Now get this... the physical phone line that has my voicemail is only 12 miles up the road from where I am currently staying. But does that mean I can make a local phone call to retrieve my messages? Nooooooooooooo. You see, the nearest Bell South office is located in Key West. Thus, I have to call there to get into the voicemail system.

Hence, in order for me to retrieve my voicemail messages while at my motel room, it goes like this:

1.	I dial a "9" to get an outside line.
2.	I dial the 11-digit 800 number printed (in microscopic type no less) on the pre-paid phone card.
3.	I press "3" to signify I wish to communicate in English.
4.	I punch in my 16-digit secret code number from the phone card.
5.	All the above simply gets me another dial tone which now lets me punch in 11 more numbers (1-305-872-5636) to get into the Bell South automated voicemail system.
6.	I press the asterisk button (*) to retrieve messages.
7.	 Next, I am prompted to enter in my 7-digit phone number.
8.	I am then electronically asked to press in my 5-digit secret voicemail code number.
9.	Finally, I am told to touch the number "1" to start to listen to my messages.

Do you realize what all this adds up to? It means, I have to leave my motel, get into my car, drive somewhere and purchase pre-paid phone cards from some unwashed, smelly towelhead, drive back to Turtle Center, unlock my motel room door, go to the phone in my room... and...

Dial 54-Numbers To Hear Some
Braindead Cretin Like Joe Polish Tell
Me He Wants Me To Call Him Back For
Some Trivial, Meaningless Reason!

Another story: During the downpour I mentioned earlier, it was hard to get around and almost impossible for services (even FedEx and UPS) to deliver stuff. So, I had my Assistant, Theresa, send me some fungolas via Western Union. Since my car had gotten so drenched, it wouldn't start. Besides, it would have been impractical for me to drive in all that rain and the flooded streets anyway. Thus, I locate the closest office of Western Union which happens to be a pawn shop on South LeJeune Road.

I walk down there and I swear, the water is almost up to my knees. I get to the pawn shop and the owner tells me he doesn't have enough cash to give me. He can only give me $100 in cash and the balance in the form of a Western Union check. You know what I remember about that pawn shop? Outside there was a sign that said:

Please Unload Weapons
And Remove Ski Masks

I thought maybe it was a joke. When I asked the owner about the sign, I found out it wasn't a joke. "We get all kinds of weird people around here," he explained.

Here's what I wonder: Two guys with guns wearing ski masks walk up to your store. You see them on your security camera. They reach out to push the buzzer so you will let them in. But then, they notice and read your sign. Being the obedient, violent felons they are, they unload their guns and take off their ski masks. Only then do they punch the buzzer. What do you do then? Do you buzz them in and say, "Thanks for taking off your ski masks guys. How can I help you?"

I don't know. If a guy approaches my place wearing a ski mask and then takes it off after he reads my sign, I still ain't gonna buzz that sucker into my store.

Anyway, back to the main gist of the story. I go back to my hotel and tell them I need to stay a few extra days because of the rain and I need to pay them with this check from Western Union. No dice. They refuse to accept a check from Western Union. The hotel staff informs me there's a Western Union office at the airport, only minutes away.

Being the compliant person I am, I go to this second Western Union office using the hotel's airport shuttle bus. I tread through the massive Miami Airport and lo and behold, I find the Western Union office. The woman behind the bullet-proof glass doesn't even bother to look up and acknowledge my existence. When I finally do get her attention (even though she still doesn't look up at me) she discloses they are, indeed, a Western Union outlet... but... they never give out cash... only checks.

I want to murder her but, I check the Florida Statutes and it seems that's against the law.

Consequently, I start going to other Western Union outlets. For your information, here is the bottom line...

I Had To Go To Six
Different Western Union Outlets
To Get My Western Union Check Cashed!

Another story: I'm on a plane to Los Angeles and I decide to read the entire 105-page instruction booklet for my new (approximately my 160th) cell phone. I learn my cell phone can be used as an organizer, a day runner, a calendar, a calculator (that is if you can remember which tiny key means "divide" and which one means "multiply", etc.) and several other options... and... best of all... this cell phone can even be used to... play three different video games! YIPPEE!

One of these video games in called "Snake." Somehow, when the snake gets fed, his tail grows longer... but... I don't know if that means you are winning or losing the video game.

When I arrive in L.A., I find myself carping about this to a young woman in a coffee shop. "Oh, you've got Snake!" she exclaims. "I've got it too. I love playing Snake."

As the day progressed, I found quite a few people who love playing Snake on their cell phone... and... I found out something else:

I Was Part Of An Elite "In-Crowd"
Because I Have The Capacity
To Play Snake!

Another story: Mongo wants a "Twister" and a soft drink. A "Twister" is a burrito-like sandwich filled with chicken and is sold by Kentucky Fried Chicken. He goes to KFC and gets his Twister and a soft drink. No problem. But, after eating his Twister, he's still hungry and wants another one. The clerk tells him he can order another Twister... but... he'll have to order another soft drink with it also. Mongo doesn't want another soft drink. He still has some of his first one left. However, the clerk says they literally can't sell him another Twister without selling him another soft drink... because... the cash register has pictures on it instead of numbers... and...

The Key With The Picture
Of The Twister On It... Also Has...
A Picture Of A Soft Drink!

Ergo, nobody who works for KFC has enough intelligence to figure out how to sell a Twister all by itself.

Thus, Mongo orders something totally different which doesn't require him to order another soft drink.

Not a story, just a fact: Politicians average 8.2 seconds to answer a question.

Another fact: Many people punch "88" seconds on a microwave instead of "90" because it is minisculely faster to tap the same digit twice.

Another fact: A buffet in Japan charges by the minute.

Another fact: Telephone information operators are taught to get you off the line as fast as humanly possible. The average length of a call for you to get a phone number from information takes 21-seconds. This is the standard and, if any operator is much slower than this, the "powers-that-be" will fire them. The phone company wants their operators to do it swifter and their "aces" get people who call for a number off the phone in an average of only 16-seconds.

Enough. What's the point of me telling you all of this stuff? Well, to begin with, copywriting fundamentals don't change. The things people want now are the same things they wanted 100 years ago... and... will probably want 100 years from now. But, the emphasis of specific things does get greater or lesser in certain periods of time. One of the specific things I believe people are desperate for today is...

Simple, Easy Solutions
Which Do NOT Give Them
Another Problem!

When a person buys a cell phone, he is not so much (in my mind) buying a communication solution... as... he is opening up another Pandora's Box of problems. That's true with all kinds of items today. More than ever, people want articles which are turn-key. You plug it in the wall, push this button, and VIOLA! it works for you.

I believe the turn-key aspect is more important than ever before.

People don't want any more work to do. People don't want anything else to learn. People don't want something else to think about. We all have brains which are jam-packed with so much trivia and information, it's a wonder any of us can even function with the mundane, everyday aspects of life.

All of this brings me to my last point. My old partner, Dennis Haslinger, taught me something I will never forget. He said, "You should think of your business as a circle. I want you to literally draw a circle which represents your entire business. Next, divide that circle like you would cut up a pie, each 'slice' representing different tasks to be done in your business. Be sure to label each 'slice'  with things like answering phones, opening mail, running errands, paying bills, talking with clients, writing the ads or sales letters, etc. Next, shade in each slice of that circle where you can hire someone else to do that particular job. The only items you should personally take care of yourself... are those matters in your business... where you are absolutely indispensable. In your circle, the only jobs you will do, are those in the non-shaded sections."

Just what does that have to do with copywriting? I'm glad you asked. I've done the best I know how to in the last few months in teaching you to write a good ad or sales letter. But, here's what I consider to be (possibly) the most important object I can teach you about copywriting at all.

It is true that with a lot of effort and using everything I've taught you, you ought to be able to write a piece of copy which will bring in profits for you. However, it is also true it will probably take you years to get as good at writing copy as you would like.

And like Dennis said, you should only personally take care of those those matters in your business where you are absolutely indispensable. If you can find yourself a good copywriter who will do a good job for you, it is my opinion, you should not write your own copy. Therefore, if you can afford it, I strongly suggest you hire someone else to write the copy and thus free you up to do whatever you do best.

I believe it's important I taught you how to write copy, even if you end up not writing yourself. Why? Because it will give you a better understanding of copywriting... and of copywriters... and you will know which ones are good and which ones are bad.

Lately, I, myself, have gone back to writing copy for clients. If you would be interested in working with me and if you can afford my admittedly expensive fees, you and I ought to talk. I charge (usually) $15,000 plus 5% of the gross. That seems like a lot of money, doesn't it? Before you decide if that is a lot of money, I want to tell you one last story.

Not long ago, I was asked to write a diet ad for a company in New Jersey called Nutramerica. They had a product which was based on the customer's knowing their own blood type. I did the best I could with that product and ad but, my best wasn't good enough. This pricked my ego so I told Nutramerica I wanted to fly up there and find out if there was a different product we could work on. After two days of questioning, I discovered they had a different product which I believed would be much more profitable to sell and I wrote an ad about that product. (You know, half of the process of doing a great copywriting job for someone is knowing WHAT job you should be doing.)

Anyway, I want to show you the final version of that ad which is being ran (as I write this very newsletter) in newspapers all over the country. It's a pretty simple ad... at least it looks simple... when you read it. Here it is (in a revised format to fit into this newsletter):

            Stops Hunger 100%!



Amazing High-Speed Diet Pill
Produces   Extremely    Fast

 Weight-Loss!




You can now purchase an all-natural  (and  extremely  fast- acting) weight-loss “miracle” pill that  literally  destroys  fat… even if… you refuse to diet! News of this “killer” fat-fighting pill is creating a virtual flood of letters to the small company that developed it. One doctor says it burns off more fat than running 98 miles per week. 

Forces Calories
To Leave Your Body!

Even though this product is extremely bio-active, it contains no drugs whatsoever. There are seven highly unusual (and extremely hard-to-find) ingredients combined in such a certain, scientific way… that… scientists call it “synergistic”!  This means each ingredient is much more powerful because of thermogenic interaction with all the other ingredients.  With clinically- controlled, scientific testing, the researchers  who  created  this formula produced a weight-loss compound so effective... that... human body fat is almost immediately destroyed and literally flushed  right  out  of  an  obese person's  body.  Sophisticated scientific testing was necessary to discover   exactly   why   this product produces such an extremely rapid weight-loss. 

The Way It Works
Is Extraordinary!

One of the ingredients is designed to maximize your body’s metabolic process. Another promotes the utilization of body fat and prevents it from being stored. Another inhibits the synthesis of cholesterol, lowers certain forms of high blood pressure and, works as an insulin mimic and has a normalizing effect on blood sugar levels. Another ingredient is a potent antioxidant which enhances your 

	

 immune system and provides “insurance” your metabolism remains at a continuously high level. The other three ingredients influence the thyroid gland, assist in mineral absorption and reduces cravings for sugar.

This Product Is So Effective At Producing Weight-Loss
In Record Time...
It Is Protected By A
Trademark And A Patent
By The United States'
Federal Authorities!

Obviously, this is NOT an ordinary diet pill. Follow the simple instructions and take this pill with water three times per day for five days a week… and… you can eat anything you want!

Proper use of this pill according to the simple instructions, will reverse years of overeating. People who have tested this pill say they rejoice almost every day… as… they look in their mirror and see the visible results of   unwanted   fat, flab   and cellulite totally disappear.

An Important
Word Of Caution!

There is a tendency in this country (especially among young women) to want to be dangerously thin. This is very unhealthy and can have serious side effects. Therefore, since this pill is now so incredibly effective (and, has no side effects whatsoever) you must be careful not to lose weight too rapidly. Before starting on this or any weight-loss program, you should check with your physician to make sure you are in normal health… and… you should take his advice on what should be your personal perfect weight. 

Do Not Go Below The Weight Goal Recommended
By Your Physician!

H.S.D. Inc. (Health Sciences Direct) is the only company in the United States authorized to sell this

	

     product which is marketed under the name “Trim Spa.” They have worked thousands of lab hours and spent what amounts to a small fortune to make sure this product will give you the ability to achieve the body of your dreams.

A Double-Your-Money-
Back-Guarantee!

This product is so truly effective and amazing, it is sold with an equally amazing guarantee.

You can make this type of guarantee  only  if...  you  are  100% certain... your product will help people lose all their excess weight.  Here  is  the  way the guarantee works: Take the pills as   directed   and   follow  the simple instructions for 30-days and  be  totally  thrilled  as  you watch your rapid and dramatic weight-loss.  However,  if  you are  not  satisfied  with  the results,  simply  return  the empty product container with a short note   about   how   you   took the  pills  and  followed  the simple instructions… and... Health Sciences Direct will send  you…  double  your money back!

It’s   just   that   simple   and it’s  easy  to  order.  All  you  have to  do  is  call  toll-free at 1-(800)-***-****  ext. *** and  order  with  your credit card.

Supply options:  $39.95 for a full 30-day supply, $69.75 for a full 60-day supply (you save over $10.00) or, a full 90-day supply for only $87.55 (you save over $30.00!).  Whatever quantity you order,  you  must  also  pay  an additional $5.95 per order for shipping and handling. Orders will be shipped within 24-hours on a “first come, first served basis.”  Thank you.

1-800-***-****
ext. ***

Nutramerica is grossing an average  between $5 and $6 for every $1 they spent on advertising. That means, since most of the orders come by phone, if they spend $10,000 in advertising on Monday, by Friday they'll have approximately $50,000. As far as I understand it, Nutramerica is spending about $100,000 in advertising per month.

$15,000 plus 5% of the gross doesn't seem like such a bad deal when you look at from this financial point of view, does it?

I have performed this "little" miracle for literally dozens of other clients. During my career in the past 20-years, I have pretty much refused to take on but a few, select clients. However, my circumstances are presently situated where I can take on new clients. Like I said, if you're interested, you and I need to talk. How do we arrange that? I'm glad you asked.

Just call my office at (305) 534-7577 and tell Theresa you want to schedule a phone appointment with me... but... only if you're for real.

This newsletter is not meant to be a sales pitch (well, I guess it's sorta a sales pitch) but, more importantly, it has sought out to dramatize to you how complex modern life is... and... continues to become. Like how difficult it is to do the simplest things (like order a chicken burrito without a soft drink) and how more and more people are desperately seeking solutions to problems that used to be simple.

Remember I told you about the 54-numbers I had to punch in to get my voicemail? You know what we had to do when I was a boy to make a phone call? You simply picked up the phone, a woman on the other end who knew you would say, "Hi Gary, who do you want to talk to this morning?"

I'd merely reply, "I'd like to talk to my friend, Elaine."

"Sure, I'll connect you right away." And PRESTO! Elaine was on the phone. Things ain't like that any more.

It seems to me we have to manipulate 1,000 digits and letters to operate beepers, cell phones, voicemail, computers, ATM machines, find out credit card or bank balances, etc., etc., etc. Doesn't it also seem to you life is becoming more and more complicated with these devices which are supposed to make our lives more and more simple?

Right now, even though I'm living in my houseboat, I'm still in the process of setting up housekeeping. I am facing the same problems any other homeowner does when they decide to remodel or add something onto their house. It's truly a nightmare. I think the movie, "Money Pit" is the most accurate comedy I've ever seen. If you've never seen this movie, I highly suggest you rent it.

I close with my final tidbit of advice...

 

Do Not Sell People Problems...
But... DO Sell Them Solutions!

  

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
 
P.S.	I can't program my V.C.R. I can't master my microwave. I can't operate the remote on my television. I can't keep my car insurance up-to-date. I can't fill out the forms necessary to join a gym. I can't keep my papers in order. I can't write a check to pay a bill. I can't schedule appointments to see my doctors. These are things I can't do.

However, there is one thing I can do... and... do better than anyone else on this earth. That's write an ad or sales letter.

So take Dennis Haslinger's simple but profound advice: Hire someone else to do the tasks in your business which are "dispensable"... so... you'll be free to do those things in which you are absolutely indispensable. 

Call Theresa at (305) 534-7577 and tell her you want to make a phone appointment with me so you can be one of the elite few to take advantage of my God-given copywriting blessing.

Peace.
 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Sex And Money!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zkzs_sex_and_money.htm

For Website Viewers:
The "rather eye-catching photo"
is not available.


From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

As you can see, I have enclosed a rather eye-catching photo with this letter.

Why have I done this? It's simple...

To Help You Learn A Way
To Make A Lot More Money!

You'll understand completely when you've finished reading this newsletter.

After that dud of a newsletter last month, I have decided to make up for it this month by giving you some info which will be profitable and interesting. This issue is gonna be all about...

Sex And Money!

Money first.

When I got started in the direct response business, the postage cost to mail a one-ounce, first-class letter was 6¢. Now, it's up to 37¢.

But hold on un momentito. The per capita income of the U.S. when I started in direct response back in 1968 was $2,231... and... the per capita income now is about $22,400. That means, first-class postage has risen in price by 617%... but... our average per capita income has gone up 1004%.

So, when you adjust for inflation, it is actually cheaper to buy a stamp now than it was more than 30-years ago. Trust me, for a "certain" reason, this is going to be a very exciting piece of information (after you finish reading this letter), which pertains to you.

But, meanwhile, just for fun, let's examine the cost of buying a first-class stamp each year all the way back to 1900.

In 1900, the cost of a first-class stamp was 2¢. It stayed at 2¢ for 16 years! Then, in 1917, the cost went to 3¢... which was a 50% increase. It stayed that way for two years until 1919... when... they dropped the price back to 2¢!

You know what's weird? When they went from 2¢ to 3¢, it was a 50% jump in price. But, when the price dropped back to 2¢, it was only a 33% reduction in price. Does that mean you could buy shit for $20 and sell it for $30 (a 50% jump in price)... and then... buy it back for $20 (a 33% reduction in price)... and... thus make a 17% profit? (50% minus 33% equals 17%)

Somehow, I know this ain't so... but... it sure would be a neat way to make money if it was so, wouldn't it?

Anyway, in 1919 stamps were selling for 2¢ again and they didn't go up until 1932 when they rose to 3¢. After that, the rate of a stamp stayed at 3¢ for 26 years all the way to 1958 when it started selling to the tune of 4¢ apiece.

How long did that 4¢ figure last? Only five years this time. In 1963 stamps increased to a nickel (5¢) apiece. Five years go by and, in 1968, they are charging 6¢.

That rate only lasted three years. In 1971, stamps soared to 8¢ each. Again, only three years pass until the next price increase. In 1974, 10¢ would fetch you a first-class stamp. A mere one year later, the going rate hiked to 13¢. After three years of selling at 13¢, in 1978 the price of a first-class stamp advanced to 15¢. In 1981, 19¢. In 1985, 22¢. In 1988, 25¢. In 1991, 29¢. In 1995 they advanced to 32¢. In 1999, up a penny to 33¢. In 2001, up another penny to 34¢. And now, in 2002, the price of a first-class stamp is only 37¢.

You know what this all translates to? Just this:

First-Class Postage Stamps Are
Now The BEST Bargain You
Can Get Your Hands On!

At least, if you are in direct marketing. Escucha! (That means "listen" in Spanish.) Escucha: About 10 years ago, only 7 out of 100 pieces of mail were what I call "A-Pile" mail. That's mail which is, or which appears to be, a first-class personal letter. By making sure all my letters got into that A-Pile, I had an enormous advantage over nearly everyone else selling by direct mail.

And Now... That Same
Advantage Is Humongous!

People hardly ever send letters anymore. Instead, people are using e-mail. In fact, I bet now, only about 1 out of 200 pieces of mail are (or appear to be) A-Pile mail.

In a newsletter I wrote years ago, I described how, when I was a little boy, the phone rang at my Grandma's house and the operator would say, "You have a long distance call." The entire household would come to attention. Someone would say in a hushed tone, "Grandma, it's long distance!"

The impact of a long distance phone call in those days was tremendous.

Nowadays, of course, a long distance call is so routine, nobody gives it a second thought. Even an international call doesn't cause much of a flurry anymore.

Anyway, in that same newsletter, I said I was the biggest customer of Federal Express in all of Monroe County, Florida. And, as I also explained, I didn't use FedEx because of their speed of delivery. No, I used FedEx... because of...

The Impact A Federal Express
Package Had On A Recipient!

This was especially true of someone who didn't work in an office. Even today, Federal Express packages are given enormous attention by a person who receives one at his or her house.

Now, because of that tiny percent of letters which are actually real letters...

You Can Get A Similar Impact For Your
Sales Message For Only 37¢!

Let's add some grease to the frying pan. Some group of morons (I don't know if they were government morons or advertising morons) have just completed a study which revealed... sex does NOT work in advertising.

What Pure
Unadulterated Bullshit!

What is really true is... sex used improperly does not work in advertising. It's like saying headlines don't work in advertising... or... words don't work in advertising. Actually, that's true... if... you are talking about stupid headlines and stupid words.

Sex (used properly) can enormously improve the profitability of your advertising. But, many advertising experts have had it beaten into their brains that "sex sells"... without ever being taught... it is only "sex used properly" which increases sales.

Let's talk about (and allow me to illustrate) how sex is often used  improperly.

Let's say some big company is selling a laundry detergent. They run television, newspaper and magazine ads featuring a woman with gigantic breasts. Those ads will be remembered. The women who see the ads will remember them with disgust. The men will remember them because they will fixate on those gigantic breasts. But, you know what? Because of improper use of sex in that advertising...

Nobody Will Remember The
Name Of The Laundry Detergent!

There are different types of sex appeal. Take Penelope Cruz, for instance. She's beautiful, she's sexy... and... she looks like a nice person. Men like her. Women like her. Thus, she is perfect for the perfume campaign she models for.

On the other hand, can you even imagine a woman who would buy "Pamela Anderson Perfume"?

Pamela Anderson and other women with her type of "sex appeal" are perfect for advertising targeted to the "Slamhead" market. In case you don't know, a "Slamhead" is a young, male beer drinker (most often a college student) who, after he drinks his beer, slams the empty can into his forehead, then finishes crumbling it with his hand... and then... throws the crushed can away. These are the guys who howl like dogs at bikini contests, urinate off hotel balconies, and buy videos of "Girls Gone Wild."

"Slamheads" are attracted to Pamela Anderson. So, if "Slamheads" are your target market, use her or a woman like her.

But, most of your marketing efforts will not be targeted to "Slamheads." And, since that's the case, our marketing efforts need to use a different kind of sex appeal. In my last issue, I suggested you peruse this particular website...

www.SirianCalendar.com

You know what I forgot? Odd as it may seem, many of my readers still don't have or use computers. So, for those people (and for those of you who haven't been to that website recently), I am going to reproduce in this newsletter something which is now on the website:



The Sirian Story

(This will be of special interest to anyone in advertising or marketing)

 

Sirian Piedra Quesada was born in a section of San Jose, Costa Rica which is only a short drive from the lush rain forest of this unique country.

Actually, no matter where you are in Costa Rica, you are only a short drive from the rain forest.

Costa Rica is known worldwide for its beautiful women... but... even amongst all this feminine beauty, Sirian is exceptional. Her flawless fair skin, forest green eyes, long blond hair, coupled with an absolutely beautiful face and body, give her an electric palpable physical presence. Sirian is widely considered to be the most beautiful woman in Central America... and... seeing her in person is akin to having a religious experience.

Until her recent resignation, Sirian has, for a long time, been a staple on Costa Rican TV. She appeared twice a week as one of the two "lottery girls" who randomly selected the numbered ping pong balls, which determined who won the Costa Rican National Lottery.

There's a rumor in Costa Rica that more people turned on their TV's twice a week to see Sirian than to find out if they won the lottery.

She's a glamorous woman who leads a decidedly unglamorous life. Sirian seldoms drinks even a glass of wine, doesn't smoke or use drugs, and avoids any sort of night life. She exercises two hours a day, goes to sleep at 9 p.m., and is a single mother completely devoted to her 6-year-old daughter and the rest of her family. All of whom live in Costa Rica.

There are many beautiful women who are not photogenic. Conversely, there are many plain women who, through the alchemy of the camera lens, photograph like a world-class beauty.

Sirian represents the best of both worlds. She is dazzling in person, and dazzling in print, television or film. Plus, she has what marketing legend Gary Halbert describes as "marketable beauty." Simply put, that means...

Putting A Photo Of Sirian
In Any Ad Produces A Dramtic Rise
In The Sales Resulting From That Ad!

And, it does not matter what you are selling. Put Sirian in a thong bikini and she looks like she just stepped out of the pages of the swimsuit edition of "Sports Illustrated."

If Sirian is posing in lingerie, she looks like a model for "Victoria's Secret."

When Sirian wears a simple black dress, she transmits class and quality.

A $500,000 Photo!

Bill Heid, President of AVS Marketing, says his sales were flat until he put a photo of Sirian in one of his ads. Then, in what seemed to be the blink of an eye, his sales soared to over One-Half Million Dollars. Below is the photo that produced all those sales:

 

 

Sirian hates to be away from her family. Therefore, she won't pose any place except Costa Rica or Miami, Florida. She'll pose in Miami since the flight from Costa Rica is just a little over 2 hours.

Because of this, Sirian's modeling fees are only a fraction of what she could get if she were willing to travel.

If you are interested in using Sirian in an ad campaign, e-mail her (at SirianPiedra@aol.com) the details and she'll get back to you promptly.

By the way, if you do e-mail her, she always likes to know which of her calendar photos people find most appealing.  

 

Now, pay attention here! That picture of Sirian was effective because of her beauty, her sex appeal, and...

Her Likability!

It shines through that particular photograph. It isn't a sexy photo that offends. Or threatens. She doesn't look like someone who, if you were to say "Hello" to her, would tell you to go fly a kite. Know this: Likability is at least as important as sex appeal.

Some proof: The readers who went to that website were asked to vote for their favorite photo. The winner was the following photo which was posted on July 6th.

 

That is an overtly sexy photo. But, people who voted it their favorite said they liked it because she not only looked sexy... but also... because she looked kind, warm and friendly.

Here are four other photos from her website:


Photo A	
Photo B

Photo C	

Photo D

Unless I was working the "Slamhead" market, I would NOT use any of those photos. In Photo "A", she looks like a snot-nosed, smartass, little bitch. In Photo "B", Sirian looks hard, cold and unapproachable. In Photo "C", she has sort of a "trampy" look. And, in Photo "D", she is too obviously posing to look sexy.

Want to know how to make "killer" profits using a photo of a sexy woman in your advertising?

Use It
In Direct Mail
As A Grabber!

Do NOT copy it onto the pages of your letter. Do send it as a stand alone photo, using it like I did with the stand alone photo enclosed with this newsletter.

That sure as hell got your undivided attention, didn't it?

And, that's why I enclosed it.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert




P.S.	

While it's true Sirian is my fiancèe, it is also true she is the most cost-effective, profit-producing model I've ever met in my entire career. Once again, you can check out dozens of her photos (for free) at...

www.SirianCalendar.com

And, should you be interested in using her as a model to drastically increase the profits of your marketing campaigns, you can e-mail her at:

SirianPiedra@aol.com


P.S.#2	

Want to read the hottest book ever written? I'm the one who wrote it and you can find out all about it by going to:

www.KillerSexBook.com

That's it for this month. I'm not always boring, am I?

Peace.


Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## I Can Be A Real Asshole Sometimes!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zhlj_real_asshole.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I can be a real asshole sometimes.

And, since I'm not inclined to change... well... maybe I'd better explain. Listen up: Here's a true story. Once upon a time (in the late 1980's) a couple guys called me for some help. They worked for a big company that helped other companies here in the U.S. to market their wares in all the Pacific Rim countries. Every time they got a new client, it was worth serious money (maybe hundreds of thousands) to the company they worked for.

What they looked for in a new client was someone or some entity which was not already selling to Pacific Rim countries but, who should be selling to those countries. They weren't after little sized companies or even medium-sized companies; they only went after the really big fish. Therefore, they didn't have unlimited prospects, only a few thousand. And, they said, their main problem was getting the attention of and, an audience with, the top dog in those big fish companies.

Once I understood how much (how very much) a new client was worth to them, I came up with a great idea! I said they should get some paper money from each of those Pacific Rim countries. Then they should take a bill from each of those countries and put them all together in a stack and wrap a rubber band around them. Then they should scotch-tape each of those stacks of money to the first page of a sales letter and send the whole mess by Fed Ex or DHL to all their prospective clients... and then... follow-up with a person-to-person phone call.

Imagine: You're a top dog exec in a big fish company, you get a Fed Ex package with a letter with a packet of actual money from various Pacific Rim countries scotch-taped to the first page of a letter like this:

 

 

Top Dog Exec
c/o Big Fish, Inc.
123 Elm St.
Massillon, OH  44646


Dear Mr. Top Dog Exec:

I am writing to ask of you a small favor.

All I want is for you to take the rubber band off the packet of money attached to this letter and look carefully at each of the bills. They are all real. Each one of these bills is an official government banknote from a different Pacific Rim country.

Why am I sending you all this money? The answer is simple: You see, your company, Big Fish, Inc., manufactures a line of products that would sell like crazy in every one of the Pacific Rim countries from which I have sent you a sample banknote. This could be a brand new profit center for Big Fish, Inc. which, in fact, could turn out to be... even bigger... then the domestic market for your widgets here in the U.S.

In truth, selling your product line in these countries could become a dream come true for Big Fish, Inc. It has the realistic potential of tripling your corporate profits.

On the other hand, attempting to market in these countries can become a nightmare for an American corporation if they don't have the right connections and are not aware of local business customs and all the other inside secrets that makes everything go smoothly and profitably.

That's where (hopefully) I can help you. My company, Rim Job, Inc., specializes in guiding American corporations into high profit situations in various Pacific Rim countries... and... we feel Big Fish, Inc. is exactly the kind of company, with exactly the kind of product line, we like to work with.

I'd like to explain in more detail how a relationship with Rim Job, Inc. could be very profitable for Big Fish, Inc. and I will call you later this week to set up an appointment at your convenience.

Thank you for the courtesy of reading this letter.

                             Sincerely,

                             Eldridge J. Fogbottom

P.S. If you have children, that packet of money can be a great birthday
     gift which will get your child interested in global geography.

  Talk to you soon.

OK, admit it: If you were Top Dog Exec and you got that Fed Ex package, with that letter and all that money, you'd be impressed, wouldn't you? You'd also probably take Mr. Fogbottom's call too, wouldn't you? And, you'd probably give him an appointment, right? And, if he truly had his shit wrapped tight, there's an excellent chance you would end up doing biz with Fogbottom and Rim Job, Inc.

Correctamundo?

The two guys who called me for advice were stunned when I came up with this great idea right on the spot. I was glad I'd helped them.

Or so I thought.

About a month later they called me again. They said they were looking for another idea. "You mean that one didn't work?" I asked incredulously. "I can't believe it. How many did you mail and what kind of response did you get?"

They hadn't mailed any. But they loved the idea and thought it was "fun" to talk with a creative genius like me and and they wanted to see if I could give them yet another "killer" idea.

I was livid. I got as verbally abusive as I could. I told them to never call me again. You know, to give another person a really good idea, an idea that may solve a major problem for them... and then... have them not even give it a shot... well... that just pisses me off big time. I've found out some things about myself in the last few years and, one of those insights is... I burn with desire to be a really great teacher!

God knows how many people are rich because of what I have taught them. I've received 3,000+ letters of appreciation from such people. But it still gets me, it really gets me, when I can't "get through" to someone.

Like most caring teachers, I am emotional about my "students." I love it when they succeed. I love it when they eclipse me.

But, you know what? I've been writing this letter and giving speeches and seminars for more than a decade... and... there are lots of people who've read nearly every word I've written, been to most all the seminars I've given, bought all my tapes and videos... and...

They Still Do Nothing!

And you know what I think? I think maybe, if something comes too easy, many people don't appreciate it. However, if they have to "work" to get your pearls of wisdom, if they have to make a "mental investment" to "get" what you have to teach... well, maybe... they'll value it more, realize how precious it is and act on what you've taught them.

Which brings me to why I referred to myself as a "sometimes asshole" at the beginning of this letter and, how, right here I'm going to prove it. (Actually, I suspect there's a lot of people who have no trouble whatsoever with the concept of Gary Halbert being an asshole.)

Anyway, here's the scoop: I know something I bet you'd love to know. And, I'm willing to lay it on you. But, I'm going to give you a mental workout and make you jump through some hoops rather than throw it at you like pearls before swine. First, to get you motivated to actually endure my Machivellian manipulations, I guess I'd better jump start your greed glands by telling you what it is I know I bet you'd like to know. Here it is:

I Know How To Make
Money Using E-Mail And
Web Sites!

Lots of people pretend to know but they really don't. They'll do stuff like tell you how important it is to have an "Internet Presence" and, how they can design and help you set up a killer web site for only $10,000 or so. You'll get your web site alright. That part is true. What you won't get however is orders and profits. Almost nobody makes money with E-mail. Almost nobody makes money on the world wide web.

But I do. I've been doing it quietly for about 36 months now... and... I'm going to teach you how to do it too.

Before I do though, let's see if you can figure it out for yourself after I give you a bunch of seemingly unrelated facts. You know, one of the gifts of a real creative problem solver is he or she can take unrelated bits of info and end up tying together all that random data in such a way as to answer an important question or come up with a breakthrough concept. Now listen: No matter how crazy it sounds, every single fact I'm about to reveal is related to making profits via E-mail.

Pray let us proceed.

FACT 1:	A recent edition of the National Enquirer, the May 27, 1997 edition with these headlines on the cover, "Jon Benet Secret Police Files," "Who's Gay Who's Not," and "Dying Sinatra Confined To Wheelchair"... well anyway, that issue has two ads you should have in your "swipe file" and, lurking within those ads is a major key to making E-mail pay a profit.

One of those ads is a full-page masterpiece with the headline: "KILL FOOT PAIN DEAD!" This ad does not ask for an order. It is designed to generate leads. Here's the coupon used in the ad:

Free! Send No Money

FEATHERSPRING INTERNATIONAL, INC.
712 N. 34th Street, Dept. NE-057 l Seattle, WA 98103-8881

     n YES! I want to end my foot pain. Please rush, at no risk, the FREE FACT KIT that tells me all about Flexible Featherspring Foot Supports. I understand there is no obligation and no salesperson will call. I will look for a LARGE PINK ENVELOPE containing all the details.

Print Name __________________________________________________________________________

Address_____________________________________________________________________________


City _________________________________  State _________________  Zip_____________________

Trust me, the wording of that coupon contains a crucial element related to making E-mail profits.

The next ad is a masterpiece also... but... this one is two full pages. Do you have any idea how much it costs to run two full-page ads in the Enquirer?

Anyway, this is a very copy intensive ad with the following headline:

Can you feel your need to smoke
disappear this quickly and easily?

There are countless men and women who finally stopped smoking, even though they no longer believed they could. Their success is documented in written testimonials. Here are extracts from some of the letters that have been sent to Andre Passebecq:

Yadda, yadda, yadda...

  

Guess what? This ad doesn't ask for an order either. It's also a lead-generator. Here's the coupon used in that ad:

Detach this form and return to:

Bodywell, Inc.
PO Box 3014
Wallingford, CT  06494

Please indicate: Your age _____

How old you were when you started smoking _____

How many cigarettes you smoke per day _____

Your present weight _____

Yes, I would like to get rid of my desire to smoke, quickly and easily. Your completely free offer of information about the Passebecq Method interests me. I understand that I am in no way obligated to buy anything whatsoever, and that no salesperson will ever contact me.

Please send me the package in discreet wrapping by first class mail.
____________________________
Name

____________________________

Street Address 

____________________________

           Apt #
____________________________

City

____________________________

State             Zip

ATBP06-1 

 

FACT 2:	In the early 1980's a guy walks into the Coach & Horses Bar on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles. There's a bunch of other guys at the bar and a pretty girl sitting by herself. Several of the barflys are seriously trying to lay a line on this pretty young chick. None of them make any progress. But, the guy who just walked in and, who had never seen this young lady before, walks up to her and speaks to her quietly for a few minutes. The young lady smiles and gets up and leaves immediately with this guy. Can you guess why? (And no, she wasn't a hooker.)
FACT 3:	A few years back I encouraged all my readers to run the following ad in their local newspaper:

 

Women Needed To Address Envelopes At Home.
Must Have Typewriter, PC Or Good Handwriting.
Call (000) 000-000



   Several of my subscribers ran that ad and learned something incredibly valuable. (Something that today, relates strangely to making a profit using E-mail.) Three of my subscribers immediately "got it" after they ran it and they went on to make a very fast $750,000 profit because of what they had learned.

FACT 4:

 

	As I revealed in an earlier issue of this newsletter, last year is the first year more messages were sent via E-mail than via the U.S. Postal System.
FACT 5:	75% of all business executives who use the Internet, use it only for E-mail.
FACT 6:	There's a company that works with dentists which provides a really interesting service for them. What this company furnishes dentists with is, the name and address of every person who lives in the Zip codes near to where that dentist's practice is located... PLUS... any of those people who have a PC and who use E-mail... well... the dentist gets all those E-mail addresses also.

PAY ATTENTION! Did you hear what I just wrote? I said you can get the E-mail addresses... PLUS... the real street addresses of millions of people. Do you understand the importance of that? Of having a person's real address and their E-mail address?

I bet you don't.

FACT 7:	There are several companies in the U.S. that will set up mass conference calls for you. You can have hundreds of people on the same call. Nothing new there, right? But, check this out: You can ask those people questions and, they can give you their answer by punching a button  on their touch-tone phone.

Here's what one company does: They get several hundred people on a conference call and then, they expertly explain what they have to offer. Then, near the end of the call, they say something like this: "We have three questions we'd like to ask everybody on this call: (1) Do you like what you've heard and are ready to sign up right now? (2) Are you interested but you feel you need more information? (3) Are you not interested at all? If you are interested and ready to go, please press one; if you want more info, please press two; if you are not interested at all, please press three.

Hundreds of people then press one of those three buttons all at the same time. Then, after a little more chit-chat, the host concludes the conference call.

20 minutes later, the company that arranged the conference call, has the name, address and telephone number of all those people who pressed those buttons and...

Those Names Are Separated
By Which Button
They Pushed!

Yahoo! A dim light has started to glow in your sick, little mind, hasn't it?

Yes, you be right, Bubba. Those hot leads, the people who pressed button #1 ("I'm ready to buy") are phoned back immediately by telephone sales people!

Is that slick, or what?

FACT 8:	The king of junk E-mail is a Philadelphia man named Sanford Wallace who runs a company called CyberPromotions. He sends nearly 4 million E-mail ads... daily!
FACT 9:	E-mail is the most widely-used application on the Internet with 11 million users.
FACT 10:	www.answers.com could easily be the most useful web page ever. It has a network of real people who can answer almost any question you might have with hard facts and a little personality. Answers to easy questions will cost you $1.79. Moderately-difficult questions cost $5.99 and, if your question requires research, you're gonna have to fork out $11.99. You post a question, pick a price range and click the send button. Within 24-hours, one of 40 researchers from around the world will send you a personalized letter by return E-mail.

   
    The answers are typically several paragraphs long and come from a wide variety of reference sources which are listed at the end. If the sources include web sites, the answer includes hot links. Before users get their answers, a group of answers.com quality assurance employees go through responses to make sure they have answered the specific questions satisfactorily. There's also an option to ask for clarification if the questioner wants an even more detailed answer.

FACT 11:	For $99 you can get software that types whatever you dictate. This software has a bigger vocabulary and is a better speller than any college kid. For immediate delivery call 1-800-IBM-7235 ext. 5296 or, for more info, visit www.software.ibm.com/is/voicetype.
FACT 12:	Another piece of software called Globalink Power Translator translates documents, web pages... and E-mail... from English into French, German, Italian and Spanish. Check it out by calling Globalink at 1-800-837-2095 ext. 8001.
FACT 13:	81% of the readers of the International Tribune now communicate via PC's, 73% E-mail and faxes, laptops and the Internet. They also spend 1/2 hour daily reading the paper. This data is from a survey of which you can (and should) get a summary by calling (212) 752-3890.
FACT 14:	The six top markets for international phone calls from the U.S. are, in rank order:
	BANK/COUNTRY	AVERAGE PER
MINUTES CHARGE	MINUTES
PER YEAR
1.	Canada	34 cents	3.05 billion
2.	Mexico	85 cents	2.01 billion
3.	U.K.	73 cents	1.03 billion
4.	Germany	88 cents	662 million
5.	Japan	$1.00	576 million
6.	Dominican Republic	84 cents	410 million

                             

FACT 15:	There are 50 companies with compiled directories of E-mail addresses. These are not web site directories. They are directories of personal E-mail addresses. You can check out a couple of them at http://www.four11.com and http://www.bigyellow.com. (That last dot is the period at the end of my sentence, not part of the E-mail address.)
FACT 16:	People who keep their mailing list on a computer need to be very careful. Believe me, I know. Here's an article that will explain one reason why this is true:

 

Mailing list
gobbled

    In 1984 I began a desperate search for people who have a progressive neuromuscular disorder called Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. I was born with CMT, and I felt that I was the only person with it. I was a newspaper reporter, and I knew the power of a letter to the editor. Through these letters I found thousands of people who had the same disease. I started a newsletter and a nonprofit organization called CMT International.

    On Nov 18, one of our oldest computers went down and took with it our 4,700-name mailing list. Many of the people on it were from the United States, particularly Florida, and we have no way of contacting them.

    Please help us find our former members and reach new ones. To contact CMT International, call (905) 687-3630.

LINDA CRABTREE
St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada 


 

FACT 17:	If you do a sales campaign which lets people fax in their orders and, you can't handle all the faxes, you need FAX OVERFLOW. Info's available by calling (305) 780-2855.
FACT 18:	Gary Halbert has quietly been making thousands of dollars from the Internet and E-mail for the last 36-months.
FACT 19:	Gary Halbert is an asshole and has decided to make his subscribers figure it out for themselves for a change.

You've got the facts, now go to it.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"Asshole"
P.S.	

Aw nuts, I'm not that big of an asshole. I guess I will tell you. I've got a report and, I'll send you one free of charge if you want it.

However, you will have to at least do a little work to get it... because... you can't ask for it by phone, fax or regular mail. No. You're gonna have to ask for it by using E-mail. Just send your request to crolfe6334@aol.com and you'll get a copy of it right away.

Peace.



Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Real Truth About Promoting A Website!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zgzd_promoting_website.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

As far as I can tell, there has been nothing but bullshit written about the real secrets of how to have a profitable website on the Internet.

There are only two major secrets about how to do this and I am going to explain each one of them to you in detail... right here... in this newsletter.

SECRET #1:  Content

Nothing is as important as content. No matter how vigorously you promote a book, if that book contains nothing but empty pages, it will never become a best seller. If it is a fiction book, it has to be extraordinarily well written. If it is a non-fiction book, it has to contain honest-to-God, useful and unique information.

And so it is with websites.

If your website is truly rich and contains "for real" useful and unique information... and... it contains a LOT of it... most likely, you won't even have to promote your website. Once just a few people read it, it will get so much word-of-mouth publicity, it will snowball into having more readers than you could ever believe.

There is no website on the Internet that contains more useful and unique information than the one I publish at...

www.TheGaryHalbertLetter.com

And, I have done nothing whatsoever to promote my website. Yet, my readership numbers are staggering.

The other day, a real Internet and website expert was visiting with me  here in Miami. He knows how to get the stats on all of the websites in the entire world including how they are ranked in various ways. He was able to show me how my website is ranked by the amount of traffic that goes to the site.

Do you know that even with no promoting, my website gets more traffic than 50% of all the other websites in the entire world?

Do you know that, in fact, my website gets more traffic than 70% of all the websites in the world?

Do you know that, in fact, it gets more traffic than 90% of all the others in the world?

Do you know that, in fact, my website gets more traffic than 99.9% of all the others?

In fact, www.TheGaryHalbertLetter.com gets more traffic than...

99.999% Of All The Websites
Everywhere On Earth!

This is NOT a category ranking. This IS a ranking of every website that exists.

And with no promoting whatsoever.

How can this be? It's simply because... my website delivers on the Number One criteria of any popular book, magazine, newspaper, newsletter or website. You know what that criteria is?

Have Something To Say!

If you don't have something to say that is true, interesting, useful and unique, you can spend millions of dollars and thousands of hours promoting your website and all you'll ever get is a handful of readers who visit it maybe more than once. Yet, on the other hand, if your website is content-laden, the sky is the limit... even if... you do no promoting whatsoever.

Do you know how stupid the advice is of people who tell you they can get your website to use certain words that will pop up in the top ten hits on a search engine? That's absolutely insane. Imagine this: You publish a website on knitting and someone is searching for information on volcanos. This "someone" types the word "volcano" into their search engine and lo and behold, he or she is "tricked" into going to your website on knitting. Big accomplishment, right? How long do you think the person interested in volcanos is going to read your website on knitting? And how often do you think he or she will come back to your website?

I could go on and on, but frankly, I'm too exhausted to go on much of a rant today.

SECRET #2:	When You Promote Your Website, Do It In 
Print... And... Don't Promote It On The 
Internet!

One good print ad in the proper media will eclipse 20-years of nonsensical online promotions. Forget about tricky "key words", affiliate programs (they're usually just another version of multi-level marketing), and every other piece of advice an Internet guru gives you... unless... that guru is making tons of money on his own website (which sells something other than how to make money with a website).

Below is an ad which is scheduled to appear in USA Today in June. It was written (quite obviously) to promote my website:

    Free Website  Reveals
   The Most Hard-Nosed,
   Realistic Money-Making
   Secrets On The Entire
   Internet!

 

 


t	How to get as much money as you need to really get your business rolling... and... get it without borrowing!
t	How to get a product to sell if you don't have one already... and...  how  to  get  it  for  nothing!
t	How to use an ordinary phone line ($15.00 per month), a Radio Shack answering machine, and classified ads to make 15 times  as  much  income  as the average American heart surgeon!
t	How to get the exact name and address of thousands of people who would love to send you money!
t	How to mail up to 100,000 letters per week at no cost whatsoever... not even postage!
t	What to write on a cheap little postcard that will make people flood you with cash!
t	How to use 976 and 900 numbers to get people to pay to hear all about what you want to sell them!
t	How to use the yellow pages of your phone book in a secret way that will flush out huge wads of money!
t	How to use cheap little classified ads to make as much as $10,000 per day!
t	How to get yourself or your product featured on cable TV at no cost whatsoever!
t	How to get movie and TV stars to help you sell your products and services!
t	An amazing secret that can turn your local newspaper into your own personal goldmine!
t	Seven sure fire ways to become a millionaire even if you only have $500.00 to get started!
t	How to write one letter... and... fill out one form... and... get an instant paycheck for up to $35,000!
t	How to totally eliminate lawsuits! (Lawyers will hate this more  than  anything  ever written.)
t	The secret of perfect putting! (This has nothing to do with business or advertising... but... so many people love golf, this info is included on the website.)
t	10 amazing ways to lose weight that work like crazy! (Again, nothing to do with marketing  or  business  but, it's vital info for millions of people.)
t	How to use CIA files to beat your competition! (Yes, they ARE available... and... you can get them.)
t	A video camera, a legal pad, a ballpoint pen: All you need to make more money than you can count!
t	What  question  you  must   ask when  you  rent  a  car  to  get the lowest price humanly possible!
t	How to get the maximum (ethical) price for whatever it is you are selling!
t	How to fly anywhere in the world at the lowest possible price!
t	How to protect yourself against your own attorney! (Note: This is 100 times more important than protecting yourself against your opponent's attorney.)
t	How to make $14,750 by sending just two faxes!
t	3 lies all intelligent men always tell women!
t	17 lies all intelligent women always tell men!
t	The top 100 most searched for words on the Internet!
t	How to overcome the body chemical that keeps you fat!
t	The secret "red convertible" technique that can get almost any man to work for you!
t	How to instantly increase your problem solving ability by 250%!
t	Why sometimes missing an appointment (deliberately) can increase your income!
t	How to gain an immediate "psychological edge" on anyone who is doing a business deal with you!
t	Secret internet software only very, very rich people know about!
t	How to use the "evaporating deal" technique to win almost every business negotiation!
t	How to get all of your advertising read by 500% more people without changing a single word or increasing the size of your ad! (You'll be shocked and amazed at how simple this is... and... by how well it works.)
t	Exactly how long it should take your web page to load! (Any longer and you'll lose people in droves.)
t	How to use sex appeal in your advertising without offending your customers!
t	How to create an "engineered paradigm change"! (This absolutely guarantees you will achieve almost ANY goal.)
t	How to chart your "energy curve" and use this info to dramatically enhance your quality of life!
t	The two worst mistakes you can make when you are meeting someone new you want to impress!
t	17   stocks   you    must   dump immediately! (Note: It doesn't matter when you are reading this. These stocks have to be removed from your portfolio under any circumstances.)
t	What you should do if you are going to have an operation that will speed up your recovery by as much as 75%! (Your doctor will never tell you this.)
t	A secret direct mail technique that has produced response rates as high as 90%! (Use this on your next mailing and watch your results and profits soar.)
t	An open letter to anyone who owns a corporation... and foolishly... believes it will protect his personal assets!
t	How  to  do  90%  of  your business... outside... the legal system... and... how to do it legally!
t	What you should do to the light bulbs in your house that can dramatically help you sell it!
t	How your military record can  get  you  extra  social security money!
t	How to sell a house faster by taking it off the market!
t	The single-best investment you can make when selling your home!
t	  A low tech (and cheap) way to increase the readership of your website by 750%!
t	The one magazine in America that (as far as anyone knows) has NEVER failed  to  produce  a  huge profit for any mail order advertiser!
t	A billion dollar business and nobody's doing it! (All the money you could ever want is going begging.)
t	How the 3 basic elements found   in   every   single successful  (multi-million dollar)  television infomercial can also be used to boost the profitability of your newspaper ads!
t	How to get back everything you lost in the stock market... and... how to get it back fast. (Hint: This isn't going  to  leave  any  stock brokers smiling.)
t	Why you should always run newspaper ads on a Tuesday!
t	How to instantly increase your problem solving ability by 250%!
t	How to live to be 110... and... still remember where you left your car keys!
t	What people really want to buy! (In the 1920's a gentleman did some startling real-world research into what motivates people to buy the most. And you know what? It's the same today. It was the same 200, 2000, even 5000 years ago. Human nature doesn't change. And  once  you   know   what  people really want to buy... it's easy to get rich.)
t	The best demographic group of people to sell to in America... by far!
t	How to make yourself 100% judgment proof!
t	How to slow down, stop and even reverse the aging process and regain and increase all the youthful energy, vitality and sexual passion you once enjoyed!
t	How to profit... and... profit big... from the coming stock market bloodbath! (No, it's not over yet. It's going to get a lot worse... but... you can cash in while others lose their shirts.)
t	Why understanding psychology is 1,000 times more important than understanding technology!
t	The single-most important thing you must do... if... you seriously want to be rich!
t	And much, much more!
	Anyway, that's just a small (very tiny) sample of what you will find on this website. Go there immediately if you want to take a wealth and success journey that you've only dreamed about until now.

www.TheGaryHalbertLetter.com

Remember, there's nothing to buy... no sponsored links... no pop-up ads... and... no registration needed. This website is "for real" 100% free.

***WARNING: Don't go to the website if you are offended by being told the truth, don't have an open mind, or will be put off by the occasional well-placed profanity. The truth  isn't always easy to take. And often, it's not pretty. If you are looking for "political correctness" instead of reality, this is NOT a website you should be reading.

 

Now let me ask you something, after all the millions of people who read USA Today read that ad, how many of them do you think will visit my website? Not only will they visit it, they'll keep coming back time after time after time. Why? Because my website really does contain honest-to-God, useful and unique information. And all of those hundreds of thousands of people will tell their friends... and soon... I expect my biggest problem will be...

Making Sure My Web Server Can
Handle All The Traffic!

I am already flooded every day with e-mails from people who want to do joint ventures with me, become clients, and everything else you can possibly imagine. You see, if you're really good at what you do, you don't even have to ask for business. You know a really good mechanic gets so much word-of-mouth publicity, he has a constant stream of strangers begging him to work on their cars. The same is true of a good copywriter/website publisher.

Last month, I said I hadn't been taking clients for a few years but I was going to start taking a few again. Even with my fee of $15,000 upfront plus 5% of gross sales, I have had a non-stop stream of clients. This was really surprising, even to me, until my new friend, Ed Dale, showed me how much traffic my website was getting.

Many of you know I don't believe in raising prices without warning. So, I'm telling you right now... this is your very last chance to ever hire me at my standard $15,000 upfront fee plus 5%. I've decided that eleven days after this newsletter appears on my website, I am doubling what I charge to $30,000 upfront and 10% of gross sales. And, after the ad you just read breaks in USA Today, my fees will most likely go much higher.

Here's the simple truth: If you have something to sell by direct marketing, all the elements of your success will be totally impotent unless somebody writes a great advertisement or sales letter for you. Good copywriters aren't expensive. In truth, they are "free" because of all the profit they make for their clients. Bad or even mediocre copywriting is extremely expensive. How so? Bad or even mediocre copywriting costs you time, money and lost opportunities.

So anyway, my old deal of $15,000 upfront plus 5% is only good for eleven more days.

You've Been Warned!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

P.S.	If you have a website and want a copywriter to promote it for you, show him the ad you just read in this newsletter (and will see very soon in USA Today) and tell him you want an ad as good as this one.

Your chances of getting an ad that good (from a copywriter other than me) are approximately equal to the chances of Joe Polish getting laid by a good-looking woman with even a shred of self-respect and half a brain.

Peace.


	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Let's See If We Can't Piss Somebody Off This Month... How About... Women?

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zdzd_piss_somebody_off.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Hey, let's see if we can't piss somebody off this month.

How about...

Women?

Here goes: Doc (long-time client and friend) calls me yesterday in a near-panic. Says, "I am more confused than ever! I don't see how anybody can sell anything to women at all. All they want to do is loll around in an emotional fog, feeling things. It's scary!"

"Ah, Doc," I reply soothingly, "it ain't that bad. Go ask your wife..."

"No way! She's one of 'em! Probably downstairs in the television room this very minute, sharing feelings with Oprah and her evil cabal..."

Eventually he calmed down, and I didn't have to dial 911. He was even laughing about it... a little... by the time we hung up. Shaken, but not so frightened anymore.

What had caused this reaction? Simple. Doc is a rabid marketer with a brilliant mind, always sniffing around new opportunities for his direct marketing business. Very successful in several ventures into male-dominated markets (sports stuff)... and very eager to tap into the larger female markets out there. Bombed with his first weight-loss product, but knew the numbers were there for other marketers, and was frustrated that he couldn't seem to "crack the code" on... selling to women.

So I gave him a homework assignment. Told him to hustle down to the local magazine rack and pick up every major women's magazine there: Oprah (you can't miss it, she's always on the cover), Cosmo, Red Book, Mademoiselle, Self, Glamour, Vogue... geez, there's a lot of 'em... Marie Claire, Us, Martha Stewart Living...

"Then what?" he wants to know.

"Read them," I respond. "Read every single one. Pay close attention to how the stories are 'sold' with cover blurbs (written by some of the best writers in the biz, by the way)... and what the stories focus on. More importantly, pay very close attention to the ads. What hot buttons they aim for, how they craft their sales pitch, price points... and, especially, which ads are running over and over again."

Now, is there any question in your mind why I had Doc do this homework?

And unless you have an extra "X" chromosome yourself, you need to do the same assignment. Right away... because...

Men Simply Do NOT Understand Women!

Even big successful studs like you. Almost no real clue at all. Doc, for example, had been married to a perfectly wonderful woman for 15 years (and had a pretty impressive bachelorhood before that). Seemed to be able to communicate with women well enough. Just assumed he "understood" them. But I tell, the boy was clueless.

And you desperately need to get a clue, dude. Why? Well, for starters, women control 90% of the wealth in this country. The hubby may have written the check, but she chose the house. The furniture. The car. The summer vacation to Disney World. Even his ties and underwear.

But there's more to it than that. Learning how to understand women is the first step toward learning how to sell to them effectively. It will be, for most men, one of the hardest things you ever do. Also, one of the most rewarding. Your personal life will get better overnight (whether you're married, single, or considering the priesthood). And financially, your bank account will swell to obscene proportions. And let me fill you in on a little secret... if you learn to sell to women...

You Will NEVER Want For
ANYTHING... The Rest Of Your Days!

Women-primary markets dominate direct sales (QVC, diets, "make your kid a genius" products), retail (check out your local mall), food (besides big damn hamburgers and beer, what other food group is being sold to men?), even cars and politics (SUV-driving soccer moms can swing any election).

And yet most marketers are guys. Not the kind of guys who were considered hotties in high school, either. Most of the entrepreneurs I know can weave a pretty sad tale of woe about their social lives (at least up to the point they started making some bucks). Not too many student body prez/quarterback/homecoming king/honor roll/most-likely-to-succeeds among us.

Hey, if you have trouble getting a date because you can't figure out what women want, you're gonna run into some very nasty obstacles trying to sell a woman anything at all.

Thus, the homework assignment.

And what did we learn, Doc?

"Feelings! Oceans of feelings! Good God, they're like alien creatures from another planet!"

Now, I'm not gonna present myself as some kind of know-it-all regarding the ladies. I learned what I know through grueling years of trial, error (mostly error)... and unfair inside help. Through a friend who shall remain nameless (himself an admitted ovary-challenged human), I met a shrink who shared a couple of critical classified secrets that were nothing short of a complete revelation in the gender wars. After that, I had a toe-hold in the female psyche, and could start navigating that wild world with a modicum of confidence.

I love women, I really do. I have always sought out close women friends, and I never reject their point of view casually. No matter how insane and irrational it is. Still, it took me years to learn how to consistently craft compelling sales pitches to them.

Most clueless guys attempt to sell to women as though they were "men with breasts". In other words, men assume the thought process going on in her head is similar to the one going on in his. Or should be. And it isn't. Not even close. If you could take a woman's thought process and transplant it into a typical man's brain, his head would explode.

The big difference... is emotions. "Feelings," as Doc worded it. If it helps to think about this stuff in simplistic terms:

Women feel. Men think.

That's why I don't even need to know the gender of the rookie writers I critique ads for. Men tend to overdo the features of any product... they want to bull you over with the force of size, performance statistics, heft and expense. In other words, the "quantity" of the thing.

Women, though, get lost in the benefits. They go off on tangents about how it feels to experience the thing...how the softness soothes, how the delicacy satisfies deep needs. The "quality" of it. Now, all copywriters learn early on that you must attach benefits to features for effective selling. But rookie lady writers often forget to mention any feature at all. You can't figure out what the heck the product actually is.

The shrink explained much about how women think... and perhaps I'll share more of the juicier details with you in a future issue. It's pretty damn interesting, I gotta say. (Maybe I'll call it a "short-cut sex ed class for clueless guys".) But what he told me about emotions is more relevant here. It has stuck with me all these years, and I use the knowledge often when I know there are women in the audience I'm pitching.

You see, there have been many studies concerning how men and women translate emotions in their brains. I don't have the exact figures handy... but researchers found that men can identify only a handful of emotional states (and they often incorrectly classify "being hungry" or "being sleepy" as emotion) (or "being really, really horny, man"). Let's say most men have nine operational emotions.

Women, however, have something like 200 operational emotions. Feeling "cherished" carries very much different emotional weight than does feeling "loved", or "adored", or even "worshiped". And they can explain these states in detail. Just mapping out the landscape of "envy" and "jealousy" could take a lifetime.

Women also multi-task feelings with ease... low self-esteem often coexists quite happily with the sense they are reincarnated princesses worthy of ruling the world. And they are capable of hating your guts, wanting to have your baby, mentally listing 14 super-detailed ways you should change immediately, and wishing you'd just step up and take control of the damn situation without being a jerk about it... all in the same nano-second that you're saying, "Huh?" (They're also wondering what's good to eat in the 'fridge, and how the couch would look better over there.)

Trust me on this. Right now, if you're an average Joe, you have no clue what women want.

So get hip. Read a couple of romance novels. (That will open your eyes. Especially when you consider that many upper-class, upper income women devour these things to the tune of three or four a week. They are shoveling romance into the bottomless pit in their hearts.) Pay close attention to ads that run month after month, year after year, in the women's magazines. Open your mind to possibilities the omnipresent horoscopes offer. (Just remember that until the FTC cracked down recently, psychic hotlines dominated late-night advertising... to the tune of billions of dollars in income. Primarily from women.)

And copy out, in longhand, the blurbs on the magazine covers. It's one of the best ongoing educations on power writing you'll ever get. Plus... you know these words and phrases have already been "field tested" on the ladies. You'll see certain verbs and word-clusters appear again and again. The word "sex" is there a lot, for example. But don't be shallow... do pay attention to how the writers quickly tie it to an unrelated subject. (And don't pout when you discover that the actual articles have little or nothing to do with sex as men understand it.)

Make this part of your continuing education and research into world-class marketing.

And please...don't be afraid, guys. The opposite sex is still the same sweet, loveable, nurturing and exciting half of the species they always were. You're just going to lift the veil on the "mysterious" part a little, and educate yourself on the details as they pertain to marketing.

The girls won't hurt you. Unless...

You Piss Them Off!

Do you think I honestly angered any of the many women who subscribe to this rag with the above rant?

I don't. You know why? Because most of the women I know in this business have something a surprising number of the guys do not: A sense of humor. And a good sense of "if it's right, it's right, so don't have a fit about it."

That, of course, is not the case outside of the business world. And it's something I truly love about direct response advertising: All cries of unfair "good old boy" advantages, glass ceilings, and gender victim-hood are completely irrelevant. No one can see you when you write a letter or ad. They don't know what color, sex, nationality or age you are, unless you choose to tell them.

Nope. You must earn the sale by providing credibility on the strength of your testimonials, your expertise, and your ability to craft a convincing sales pitch. It's the most "blind" kind of salesmanship there is. You could be a trans-sexual, trans-species Siamese twin whose visage frightens little kids on the street. Doesn't matter. In direct response, it's what you can deliver in terms of useable information and useful product that counts. Pure equality in action.

I've considered teaching a special seminar in certain cities directed only at women... revealing the amazing opportunities for independence and fabulous incomes and complete control over your future inherent in forming your own direct response business. You want better child care, flexible hours, a workplace free of harassment? Then make one. No one's stopping you. There are no glass ceilings in the entrepreneur biz.

Women business owners have little patience with anyone who complains about "the boys playing too rough". They just play rougher, if they have to... or create the atmosphere they want in their own workplace.

No one is stopping you. That's kinda scary to most people... it's much easier to blame your lack of success on outside factors. America is becoming a nation of victims, and it's just damned silly. If your "movie" isn't progressing as excitingly or romantically as you'd like... change the script. It's up to you. Unless you're literally chained up in some dungeon, nothing is holding you back but your own inner nonsense.

You know, you don't hear much complaining from street-wise hustlers, either. They don't expect life to cut them any slack, and they have learned long ago that they must take what they want... cuz...

Nobody's Gonna Give It To Them!

I didn't grow up on city streets. My childhood was spent running unfettered around the fascinations that existed for children in a "typical small American city". And maybe it wasn't as dangerous as the ghetto neighborhoods of Compton or Brooklyn, but there were plenty of opportunities to get your head kicked in. There was class warfare among the street racers... you were either a committed "Ricky Racer"... or... a serious lowrider or you had no business being in their company. There were some nasty race conflicts, too... my closest friend was a Latino, but that didn't mean I could walk through the local barrio safely.

For every good vibe available cruising around on a Friday night chasing girls, there was a nasty surprise just as easy to run into. If you were scared, you had to stay home. The only rule was: You were responsible for your own safety. It was understood that you would make mistakes... but you were expected to learn from them quickly.

It's the same with the business world, though few people realize it. There are no guarantees when you get involved... and there are plenty of unsavory types out there who will happily eat your lunch and steal your bike.

I was thinking about this when I saw the movie "Snatch" the other night. Great flick, if you haven't caught it. Brad Pitt as a gypsy bare knuckle fighter in a riveting plot full of thieves, killers, cops, diamond merchants with no ethics... and wannabe thugs. It's entertaining as a movie... but if you look at it as a metaphor for business, it just sings.

In a nutshell, here is the lesson:

Rookies Get Eaten Alive...
Lucky Men Run Out Of Luck... And
Only The Ego-Less, Cool-Thinking Pro Survives!

Lots of self-centered pros get their clocks cleaned through hubris. They get cocky, or self-righteous, or just forget that there's no rule against them losing. Rookies are shocked when they lose, but they aren't necessarily surprised. The look on a pro's face when the unthinkable happens can quickly cure you of any silly feelings about your own invincibility.

In whatever market you're in, you really should understand all aspects of it with as much detail as an ego-less, cool-thinking pro about to enter a dark alley in a crime-soaked part of town... who wants to make damn sure he comes out alive. You don't go in unprepared. You don't figure on God watching your back. (He's too busy these days.) And you don't go in with fairy tale ideas of how the world works.

You won't "magically" succeed in business just because you try. It's not like Hollywood movies at all. Not one little bit. Screw waiting around for something magical to happen. The savvy businessman just takes control right off the bat. And learns all about his market... so that he knows every detail, and knows it better than anyone else.

I can't tell you how often people send me ads to critique... where it's obvious the writer has no clue whatsoever what motivates the prospect he's after. It's insane. It's exactly like taking a bus to the worst part of town, and walking into an alley without the slightest notion of what to do when confronted by a hard-ass. Or two. Or three.

Okay, so maybe your market isn't full of thieves and street fighters. The point still holds. If your market is strictly little old ladies in need of knitting supplies, you still have to understand them at their deepest level. Because even a little old lady will blow off your ads with the scorn of a Mafia boss, if you don't immediately hit her sweet spot with your pitch.

Experienced marketers nod in agreement when I talk about hitting the "passionate sweet spot" of your prospect. They know that cold, lifeless, boring ad copy seldom gets read, and almost never gets acted on.

So I tell would-be writers, over and over, to put more passion into their copy. But there's a catch: Once you've effectively tapped into your own passion for your product...

You Must Then Put A Lid On It!

Confusing? Naw. Let me explain: What you want to be is like the super-focused, super-calm salesman... who has a glint in his eye... and seems barely able to contain his glee and wonder at the benefits of his product. But he does contain it. You sense the passion... but he's not bowling you over with it.

Too many writers think that tapping into your own passionate sweet spot is akin to getting all riled up and insane. In print, the effect is like a three-year-old kid pestering you for attention. It's damned annoying in kids, and a huge turn-off in adults. Don't grab my lapels and scream in my face, no matter how blissed-out you are about your product. Passion makes your copy powerful not because people respond to wild-eyed true believers... but because passion attached to a reasoned and focused sales message zeroes in on the human element in the process.

Imagine a guy asking his beloved to marry him. Jumping up and down and hollering may show that your passion runs deep... but she'll think you flipped your lid, and will certainly think twice about hooking up with a nutcase who can't control himself. On the other hand, popping the question in a cold and casual way won't exactly melt her heart, either.

No. You must find that delicate middle ground... where your passion shows as a gleeful glint, something powerful that is yet under your control. True salesmen know that effective passion is something the prospect senses, and senses clearly. It is a tool to help the pitch. Unfocused passion is not a replacement for the pitch.

Examples:

"I have just discovered something so exciting that I feel I'll burst if I don't share it with you..."


"Right now, it's past midnight here at the office and I should be home and in bed.  But I can't sleep.  There's something urgent I have to share with you, and it just can't wait..."


Something incredible has just happened here... and the first person I thought of to tell this amazing story to was you"

Get it? It's not: "HEY! Look at this!!!" It's: "If you have just two minutes, I have an amazing story to share that will shock and delight you..."

Great salesmen know that, to make the sale, you must be in total control. If there are choices to make, you must guide the prospect to make them during the pitch. If there are problems or objections, they must be addressed and solved during the pitch. The role of passion is to keep the prospect riveted to the story, so these things can be reasonably taken care of... and the sale closed. Effective passion... just like laughing... is contagious. You can (and should)...

Infect Your Prospect With It,
Straight From Your Heart,
But Through Your Brain!

Think of it as "passionate reason". You're not a professor in a lab coat explaining a cold equation... instead, you're a regular fella (just like your reader) letting him in on something truly fabulous and worthwhile.

Do it with an urgent gleam in your eye, and barely-contained excitement he can clearly sense.

Onward. A good friend of mine, Stan Dahl, works in something called "information systems". He talks about the "architecture" of data, and has worked with such massive collectors of information and data as NATO and ARCO's AM/PM Mini-marts. These organizations bring him in when the mountains of data threaten to crush the system. (You don't wanna know how unorganized NATO's Belgium headquarters are. Scary.)

Anyway, I've known Stan for 15 years or so, and it's taken about that long for him to explain what he does to me in a way I can understand. It's not that the architecture of data is all that hard to explain, or that I'm that dense... okay, maybe I am that dense, but that's not the story here. It's sort of like a major league pitcher trying to explain the mechanics of a true screwball to someone who's never played baseball... or a musician trying to explain music theory to someone who's never touched an instrument.

However, once I "got" it, I realized I'd been practicing my own form of "data architecture" ever since I created my first ad. And just to show you how all things in this universe eventually intersect, my own style of managing massive amounts of information are almost identical to what Stan tries to teach the brainiacs in charge of missile silos.

Namely, he has a tactic he calls "Find 3 Rules That Work". Briefly, he teaches the info wranglers to stop trying to embrace the totality of any one project... which usually creates more confusion and logjams of data... and to simply find three basic categories or rules or activities that accomplish something, and to build from there. It's like creating a foundation that you know is viable, before going on to the layers that must stand on that foundation.

Well, guess what? When I'm confronted with a fresh copywriting project (especially with a new client), the first thing that often lands on my desk is a Federal Express box (never a slim envelope, mind you) crammed with paperwork and videos and notes and transcripts and manuscripts. This is everything the client can find explaining the product, showcasing other marketing efforts made, other ads run, studies done, and committees convened. In short...

It's A Big Honking Pile Of
Data That Must Be Wrangled!

And my job is to take that honking pile, digest it... and come up with a slim, snappy sales pitch that condenses all that information into plain English. And I have to do it in my head.

Now, those of you who have studied my ads and letters (and shame on those of you who haven't yet), you will notice that often, my headlines are structured with three benefits. Sometimes less, sometimes more... but most often, it's three.

Three is a very important number. It's the least number of legs needed to support a stool. Most huge literary efforts are in trilogies. Most religions have some version of the "father, son and holy ghost". It's a prime number. It's the number of fingers on Mickey's hand. And so on.

At first, I created this "3 Benefits" thing unconsciously. It just seemed right. Had a bit of poetry and rhythm to it. Da da da. And I suppose, were I to corral a smart guy like Stan and grill him extensively, I might discover that I'm using a kind of information system to distill all that data.

But it doesn't really matter. At this stage in my career, I can simply look back and see what worked (and still does work). And using three benefits for your Unique Selling Position ("USP"), or your headline, or your basic sales pitch, simply makes sense.

Because it works.

Look at your own pile of data. If you're working for clients, you're faced with a bunch of new stuff. If you're writing for your own product or service, you're up to your neck in details about it. Hard to see the forest for the trees.

So begin by breaking it all down to three simple benefits that you can easily explain, and back up. Even the most complex product or service can be knocked down to size... and... should be, anyway.

I don't care if you're launching satellites into space, starting a local bakery, or selling yachts to rich folk. What you offer, whether in product or service, can be broken down to three basic benefits. You can have more benefits, of course. But those come up later in your pitch, as you're turning up the heat (under the category of "but wait, there's more"). That's how I load up my bullets.

But when you're crafting your all-important USP... which is the basis of all great headlines, by the way... you need to get down, dirty, and direct. (See, there's three benefits right there.)

Here are a few examples:

Fast, cheap, and good. (One of my favorite ways to start the process is to see how the job meets these criteria. At least half the time, if you can justify to your reader that what you have is of high quality... a bargain... and brings results quickly... you're off to the races.)


Simple, easy, and lucrative. (Combined with fast, cheap, and good, these pretty much take care of the entire consumer landscape.)


Get good, get connected, and get paid. (It means "become an expert, become a functioning part of your market, and demand you are paid what you're worth.")


Consistent, accurate, distance. (Very elegant phrase I've used a lot in my golf pieces. Covers the three primary concerns of most golfers.)


Buy your dream home, sell your old house fast, and get a great mortgage rate even with lousy credit. (An example of how this might work in a real estate ad.)

I could go on... but I won't. You get the picture, and that's all I wanted to convey. Mostly, to be honest, I just wanted to impress you with my savvy in ultra-modern techno-babble. Or, at least, my ability to talk a good line of bull.

But the power of "Find 3 Benefits That Work" stands. Once you distill all the available info you have down to three compelling benefits, the rest of your headline and copy practically writes itself.

So there.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.	

Guess What? I cheated again!  Just like last month's newsletter,  I personally didn't write this month's newsletter.  Nope, I swiped it from my good friend, John Carlton.  I thought his information was so valuable, I got his permission to share it with all my readers.

 


	

Actually, all of John's newsletters are great.  You should subscribe.  Here's the info you need:  Send check (payable to "Marketing Rebel") for $199 (for a year) to John Carlton, 316 California Ave. #114, Reno, NV 89509... or fax your name, mailing address, credit card number, expiration date and signature (including billing address, if different)to 1-775-562-2655.  Comments, questions and rude asides: john@marketingrebel.com

 


P.S.#2	Although I love "real" snatch more than anyone else I know, unlike John, I hated the stupid movie with that same title.

 


	Peace.
 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## You Don't Have To Get It Perfect, You Just Got To Get It Going!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zhkl_get_it_going.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Let me recap for you what I said in last month's newsletter.

I said:	When it comes to writing copy, far too much attention is paid to the actual writing and far too little is paid to ferreting out facts about that which the copywriter is trying to sell!

I told you that the first step to world-class copywriting (salesmanship-in-print) is to create a FACT SHEET about that which you wish to sell.

I told you to make your FACT SHEET as detailed as possible and then go over it very carefully and translate the facts therein to benefits for the buyer and to create a humongous BENEFIT LIST.

I then told you to think about what you are trying to sell, think about all the benefits to the buyer and about how (in what manner) you would like to buy what you are trying to sell. And then, you work to come up with the sweetest, most powerful OFFER you can and to create a DEAL SHEET which contains the strongest PROPOSITION you can offer which has been reduced to writing.

I told you to copy, in your own handwriting, the best ads and/or direct mail packages you can find that are related to what you want to sell.

And finally, I told you that, if you would do all this, the next step was for you to take a break and wait for this month's letter wherein I would teach you how to lash all this together in such a way as to create a compelling sales-pitch-in-print.

Let's go for it! Here's what you do now: You get yourself a few boxes of 3x5 index cards and you go back to your FACT SHEET. You copy each fact on the FACT SHEET onto a separate 3x5 card.

Now you go to your BENEFIT LIST and you copy each benefit listed therein also onto a separate 3x5 card.

Set these cards aside in two neat piles on your desk. Now, pick up your DEAL SHEET upon which is written out the sweetest offer you can come up with to entice your prospective buyers. Let's say, as in last month's illustration, you are trying to sell a car and the offer you have written out on your DEAL SHEET reads like this:

I'll sell you my 2-year-old caddy for only $11,500. I'll let you drive it for a week free before you decide to buy it. Not only that, I'll throw in a free trip to Las Vegas and I'll buy every drop of gas you use for the first 10,000 miles you drive.

Now, armed with all this sales "ammo," let's go ahead and lash everything together and actually create a piece of world-class salesmanship-in-print! In this case, we're going to write a sales letter that we have decide to mail to 1,000 people who live near you who might be interested in buying your 2-year-old Caddy. I think a good place to start would be to get the names of 1,000 people in your area who own an Oldsmobile that is at least two or more years old.

Alright now, the first thing we have to do is we've got to capture these people's attention. And, since we are going to be mailing printed letters (as opposed to personally typed or computer-personalized letters), what we are going to do is write a headline and later emblazon it boldly across the top of the first page of our letter.

Now hear this: There are a lot of good ways to write headlines; there are headlines that ask a provocative question; headlines that reveal a startling fact; headlines that announce something like a special deal or a store opening; headlines that shock; that titillate; etc. So, what you are about to learn here is not the only way to do it but rather, one very good way that will seldom let you down. Namely, we are going to strive to write a headline that offers both news and a big benefit to the readers of our letter!

First, let's take our proposition or offer (it's the one you wrote on your DEAL SHEET) and state that offer in such a way that is both newsworthy and benefit-promising. Now, what is newsworthy about what we have to say? Hmn? It seems to me that it's newsworthy that there is a man somewhere (you) who has a car to sell he thinks so much of he is willing to let someone drive it for an entire week before they decide whether or not to buy. And what are the big benefits, the unusual benefits of this deal? It seems to me free gas for a year and a free trip to Vegas make up some very tasty icing.

Now, who is it that's offering this hot deal? It's you, right? But who are you? OK, let's say your name is John Stebbins. So the first words of our announcement (headline) could reveal who is making this offer, and we could start with...

John Stebbins Says...

But wait. You say you're not well-known and your name won't mean much to the people reading your letters? OK, let's try again. You're a local resident, right? So let's start off with...

Local Man...

Can we improve on that? You bet. If we can be more specific (specificity always enhances response) we can do even better...

Especially if we can be more specific in a way that immediately implants in our reader's mind that you are someone real, someone he could pick up the phone and call or go visit if he needed to!

So, let's say you're a dentist and let's begin our headline like this...

Local Dentist Says...

So far so good. What's next? Well, what is it you are saying? Uh, let's see. Oh yea, you're saying you'll buy a trip to Vegas and a year's worth of gas for anybody who buys your 2-year-old Caddy. So, let's simply say it. Like this:

Local Dentist Says He
Will Buy A Free Trip To
Vegas And A Year's Worth
Of Gas For Anybody Who
Decides To Buy His
2-Year-Old Caddy!

That headline is a simple, uncomplicated statement of fact. It offers news. If offers two strong benefits. And there is a "hidden" lesson here for those of you perceptive enough to catch it. It's this: One of the secrets of writing great copy is just...

Saying What You
Have To Say!

Don't discount the importance of this just because it is such a simple and obvious thing. People pay me ungodly amounts of money to simply help them say what they have to say. And when I do it, they accuse me of being a genius and I'm always amazed. You see, what I really am is simple-minded. Here's a typical conversation between me and someone I'm trying to help:

"Gary, I'm going nuts trying to write this ad. I've been struggling with it for weeks and I just can't seem to make any headway."

"Well, John, what is it you're trying to get across? What is the big thing you have to say?"

"Gosh, Gary, I can give people the best deal on washers and dryers that anybody has ever seen!"

"Oh, yeah? Why is that?"

"It's because of my wife. She's really p.o.'d at me. She says I'm a workaholic and she's sick of it. She says we haven't had a vacation in 14 years and if I want to keep her, I better close the damn store for a month and take her to Europe. She says she doesn't care if I almost have to give away my inventory."

So I start scribbling on a piece of paper and a few seconds later I show him this:

          She's fed up...

Angry Wife Forces Local
Businessman To Almost Give
Away Everything He's Got
 In His Store!

"Hey, that's it!" he says. "You've got it! That's just what it is I wanted to say. You truly are a genius!"

Maybe I am. I know I'd certainly be the last to deny it. However, all I did here is say what he had to say.

Which brings me to a crucial point I intend to pound into your head until you are sick of hearing it. It's in response to something I hear all the time and it usually goes something like this: "But Gary, I don't have anything special to say. My offer is really pretty ordinary. Pretty standard."

Oh yeah? Well, if that's the case, you need to forget about writing copy until you "sweeten" your offer enough so you do have something to say. Contrary to popular opinion...

What You Have To Say
Is Enormously More Important
Than How You Say It!

Listen, if I just found out you had won the Irish Sweepstakes, there is now way I could tell you that would be dull and boring. On the other hand, I probably couldn't entice you to read a book on the history of farm machinery (there really is such a book) no matter what my headline said.

Back to the salt mines. If you were paying attention, you will have noticed that our headline to sell your 2-year-old Caddy didn't mention that you would let someone test drive it for a week free. Let's put that fact in a lead-in subheadline. And now, what we've got is this:

And he'll let you drive it
                        a week for free!

Local Dentist Says He
Will Buy A Free Trip To
Las Vegas And A Year's Worth
Of Gas For Anybody Who
Decides To Buy His
2-Year-Old Caddy!

And that's what we're going to print in big bold type on the top third of the first page of our letter. And next? OK, next, let's tell our reader who this letter is from. He already knows there is a local dentist involved but let's make you even more real in his mind by telling him exactly where you are located. It's simple -- we just write:

From:
John Stebbins
123 Oak Street
Massillon, Ohio  44646

And next? Ah, now it's time for our salutation. It's surprising to me how many people struggle with this part of a letter unless, of course, it is personalized. Should it be "Dear Reader"? "Dear Occupant"? "Dear Resident"? "Dear Lover of Fine Cars"? "Dear Fellow Massillonian"?

No, no, no, no... NO! The way I always start a non-personalized letter is...

Dear Friend,

I don't know, it just seems to me a... a... a friendly way to begin.

And now, after all this, we are finally ready to write the first sentence of our letter. And what should that first sentence communicate? Veddy simple. It should...

Tell Our Reader
What's In It For
Him If He Takes The
Time To Read Our Letter!

Like this: "If you would like to own a 1987 Cadillac and get it real cheap, here is some good news."

That's the first paragraph and, in the next paragraph or two, you tell the reader (by elaborating on the headline) what the good news is. Like this:

"My name is John Stebbins and I am a dentist here in Massillon. I've got a 2-year-old Caddy and it is in almost perfect shape and I have to get rid of it for reasons I'll tell you later. But anyway, I just want to sell this car fast and I'm willing to let you test drive it for a week free if you are really interested.s

"Not only that, if you do decide to buy it, I'll give you a very low price and I'll buy you a trip to Vegas and I'll pay for all the gas you use for the first year you have the car."

Now, can you imagine what our reader is thinking at this point? It's easy, he wants to know... WHY?!! Why are you offering such a good deal? And, if you want to sell him, you've got to tell him.

Which is what comes next and you should address the issue like this:

"Why am I offering such a good deal? The reasons are simple. First, I hate car dealers. I tried to sell my Caddy back to the dealer I bought it from and he said stuff to me that was an insult to my intelligence. That's why I'd rather sell it cheaper to a regular person than hassle and bargain with some guy who cheats people for a living.

"And the reason I'm willing to buy all your gas for a year is because, unless you had a Caddy before, you probably don't know but... Caddys, at least the ones in excellent condition like mine, get very good gas mileage."

Now, listen to me: At this point you've captured your guy's attention and you've give him enough to decide whether he's interested or not. If he is interested, what he wants now are some facts. And a simple way to give him these facts is to simply enumerate them like David Ogilvy did in the classic Rolls Royce ad I reprinted for you last month. How's an easy way to introduce these facts? Like this:

"And here are 10 important facts about my car:"

And then, you pick up those two piles of 3x5 index cards on your desk (the ones that enumerate the facts and benefits pertaining to your car) and you arrange those cards in rank sequence with the card that contains the hottest fact and/or benefit at the top of the pile. Then, what you do is you start at the top of the pile and you transfer those facts/ benefits on the 3x5 cards to your letter. You simply enumerate them. The first three might look like this:

1.	This car has the strongest, most rigid construction of any car built in America and it is the safest car you can use to transport your loved ones.
2.	It has automatic everything and it is the easiest car on the road to drive.
3.	This car only has 7,413 miles on it and it should give you many more years of luxurious trouble-free driving.

And so on.

And now we come to one of the most important elements of all. Remember how I told you the single most important thing to concentrate on was your offer? OK, the second most important thing is to make your offer believable. We've already put a lot of believability into this letter by revealing your exact name, occupation, and address and giving our reader specific info. But we must do more. You see, if you've got this prospect wanting the car, wanting the deal, what he wants most right now is...

More And More Reasons
Or At Least One More Powerful Reason
Why He Can Believe
You!

Again, why are you offering such a good deal to him? It's not enough that you hate car dealers... if the car is so good, why the heck are you even willing to sell it? Here are some possible reasons:

1.	You need the money and you need it now.
2.	Your wife hates the color.
3.	You've decided to go to Africa and become a missionary.
4.	You want to take flying lessons and buy a sea plane but you can't afford both the plane and the Caddy.
5.	Your eyesight is going bad and soon you won't be able to drive anymore.

But whatever the reason is, it must be reasonable. It must be believable. It must be real... and true. It should take the question mark out of the mind of your prospect. It should give him an "aha" experience sort of like this:

"Oh gee, no wonder the guy wants to sell the car so fast. I would too if I had a chance to go live in Paris for 3-years!"

There's just one thing left: We've got to ask for action which in this case means simply telling him if he's interested to call you on the telephone.

Oh yeah, and you'd better give him a reasonable reason why he should call right now, like maybe simply the truth that you've mailed nearly 1,000 of these letters and you don't expect the car to remain unsold for much more than 48-hours.

And then you sign off by writing...

                                         Sincerely,

 

                                         John Stebbins

P.S. Don't forget to always add a P.S. because some people read that part of the letter first. And what the P.S. should say is some little thing additional about one of the items of hot enticing info you've already given him like...

"P.S.	That free trip to Vegas has got to be confirmed in the next 11-days or else the coupons I won at the Dentist's Charity Ball last month will revert to the second-place winner."

Let's sum it all up:

1.	You create a FACT SHEET.
2.	You create a BENEFIT LIST.
3.	You reduce your OFFER to writing on a DEAL SHEET.
4.	You write a headline that contains news and the promise of one or more benefits.
5.	If you have more than two hot benefits, you can put another in the lead-in sub-headline.
6.	You reveal exactly who the letter is from.
7.	You begin the salutation, "Dear Friend,".
8.	You write a first sentence that tells what's in it for your prospect if he reads this letter.
9.	You use the next few paragraphs to elaborate specifically on your promises.
10.	You next tell him why you are offering such a good deal.
11.	You enumerate facts that translate to benefits and you simply list 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, etc., etc., as many as you've got.
12.	You next write a true and believable "reason why" explanation of why you are willing to part with this wonderful car.
13.	You ask him to respond and urge him to hurry.
14.	You sign off with "Sincerely,".
15.	You write a P.S. that gives him a little new wrinkle on one of the hot reasons you've already given him as to why he should buy this car now.

And you typeset, type, print, fold, address, stamp and mail your thousand letters.

And live happily ever after.

I hope.

Now hear this: I was going to, after I got this far, write that Caddy letter myself so you could see it all strung together. But I've changed my mind. Some of you are more serious than others about learning to write copy and, if you are, I want you to write a sales letter about your car and send it to me. Make sure I get the letter by the end of this month and on the first of the month, I'll read all the letters and I'll reprint the best one and send a really valuable (honest) free gift to whomever I think has written the best letter.

But don't write about anything except your car because that will make my judging job easier and likelier to be more fair.

Do this! You can't lose! My little contest is really secondary. The main thing is you will have gotten off your lethargic keister and stretched your mind a bit and the doing of this will prove to you that...

You Don't Have To Get
It Perfect, You've Just
Got To Get It Going!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert


The Wizard of Words

P.S.	

Look, this isn't the last thing I have to say about writing copy. Not by a long shot. It is not everything you need to know about this important subject. But... it is enough. Enough to get you going. Enough to give you a workable formula to get started while we are waiting for absolute perfection.


P.P.S.	Don't even think about missing next month's issue! Why? Simply because I'm going to give you a piece of hot info that is so totally important it could enhance your chances of success by 1,000%


Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## You Can't Know What You Don't Know!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/aakk_you_cant_know.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I used to drink a lot of beer.

Not anymore. In fact, I don't drink anything alcoholic at all these days except for an occasional shot of Nyquil when I've got the sniffles and can't sleep. It's a shame in a way. Sitting in a seaside bar sipping brew after brew and watching the boats go by was very pleasurable. But alas, I got to where the fun of drinking simply wasn't worth the hangovers I had to endure.

Poor me.

Oh well, I supposed there's worse things in life than not being able to drink.

And besides, booze made me do dumb things.

Really dumb. Like this: Once upon a time (circa 1970) I was attending a seminar near Baltimore that was being given by a company called DUALABS or DUOLABS -- I can't remember exactly. Anyway, the subject of the seminar was how direct marketers could obtain the demographic info that was then being gathered by the 1970 census and how they could use that info to help them sell their goods or services.

Of all the organizations in attendance at that seminar, the one that sent the most people was...

The Republican Party

Yea verily, they were there to learn how to use that census info to help elect all those slimebags they had managed to get on the ballot. Well, I've got to tell you something: I do not like politicians. None of them. Democrats. Republicans. Independents. You can have them all. It is my belief that it is virtually impossible to go anywhere at all in politics and arrive there with your ethics intact. Politics is compromise...

A Compromise Of Ethics!

Many of you will agree with what I've just written. Almost. You'll agree except for the candidate you support who is, you believe, an exception.

You are wrong. The only difference is that the guy you support hasn't revealed his scumminess just yet.

Trust me on this. Anyway, so now that you know where I'm coming from, perhaps the rest of this story will make more sense. So, there I am at this "confidential" census data seminar and I get invited to a cocktail party one evening. Most of the seminar people including all those mucky mucks from the Republican party are there. I make conversation. I drink. I talk some more. I drink.

And so on. And so it comes to pass that one of the politicians asks me if I've ever done any political work.

"I wouldn't think of it," I reply.

"Why not?" asks the slimebag.

"Because," I say, "I don't think a politician could lose if a I worked for him and I wouldn't want that responsibility."

They began to snicker. They thought I was a joke. "Oh yeah," one of them says condescendingly, "why don't you tell us how you'd do it so a candidate couldn't lose? We'd just love to hear that!"

And so I did. Like I said, I was drinking. I'd had just enough to be garrulous but not enough to stop me from being lucid. I told them how I'd:

t


t




t


t	enter all data on every zip code in the U.S. into a computer

and how I'd massage that data to enable the computer to kick out groups of zip codes with similar characteristics

and how I'd overlay that info with all the data from the voter registration lists that had been computerized

and how I'd feed into this database all sorts of other info from all sorts of other sources.

The slimes were paying attention now. Most of this was new to them and they were eager to learn it all. And then I told them how...

I'd Create A Full Print
Computer Letter That Would
Be Individualized To Every Person
On That List Based On
What My Research Revealed
To Be His Or Her Particular
Hot Buttons!

In other words, the racist pig in Georgia would get a totally different "pitch" than the ghetto welfare recipient in Newark.

"And I'd 'customize' the TV and radio commercials too," I told them. "Each geographic cluster with similar characteristics could get the exact 'electronic pitch' most likely to fire up the greed glands of the voters in that particular area and make them vote for my guy."

"Who would your guy be?" they asked. "What would he be like?"

"He'd be almost a non-entity," I said. "Somebody who was bland, homogenous and easy to manipulate. Someone who would do what he was told, who would stay on his marks. No blacks. No Jews. No radicals. Somebody who I could insulate from the public by making sure all his remarks were pre-canned!"

Sound like anybody you know?

Shame on me. The Republicans have, for almost 20-years, followed every shred of advice I gave them. And they've made tremendous gains while the Demos lose ground almost every year. Why? It's simple...

Politicians Are Not Elected,
They Are Sold And The
Democrats Are Lousy
Marketers!

As I understand it, the Demos have been using quasi-mainstream agencies like Rapp & Collins while the much shrewder Republicans use real marketing experts like Richard Viguerie.

And, you know what? This is one of the few instances when I'm sorry that 20 minutes of drunken advice from Sir Gary of Halbert is worth more than 18 years of misdirection from mainstream agencies peopled by marketing morons. You know, the Demos don't even know what to promise! They blather on about the environment, international diplomacy and "concepts" when, in fact...

Americans (In Spite Of
What They "Pretend") Never
Vote Anything Except
Their Pocketbooks!

Whatever. Listen: This letter is very deliberately being sent to you the day before the presidential election. Therefore, by the time you read it, George Bush will be the president elected. Dukakis never had a chance. Whomever is handling his campaign has made so many stupid mistakes it makes me wonder if maybe they are secretly working for the Republicans.

Aw nuts, who cares anyway? As my late friend, Freddy Maughiman, used to say when explaining why he didn't vote...

"I Can't Stop Them From
Stealing My Money But I'm
Damned If I'll Voluntarily Let
Them Steal My Time!"

Now, let's boogie. Last month I gave you 50 titles of 50 proposed reports and asked you to pick the 10 winners and the 10 losers. OK, I don't know the answers yet except that #9 is one of the winners and I know that because Robert Allen told me so and then I told him I didn't want to know the other winners (or losers) till I took the test myself. So, now I've taken the test and here are my picks including #9 which I would have picked anyway.

WINNERS:	 2, 8, 9, 10, 13,
15, 25, 37, 46, 49
LOSERS:	18, 24, 26, 33, 34,
43, 44, 45, 48, 50

Let's see how I did. May I have the envelope please? Ah, there is it and the real answers are:

WINNERS:	28, 9, 43, 6, 42,
3, 20, 39, 25, 2
LOSERS:	34, 19, 18, 5, 4,
29, 31, 33, 23, 26

Which means I got 3 of the winners and 4 of the losers.

Geez, I'm rather sorry I started all this. This sucks. My guru status is in real jeopardy. All I can hope for now is that some of my readers are as hopeless as me. I am now going to go through all the entries and see who won.

Back in a little.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Hey, here I am again and I've got a big smile on my face! Why? Simply because...

Nobody Did Great!

In fact, every single "marketing" person (like myself) did just awful. In fact, one of the best marketing minds in the U.S. didn't guess a single winner. Zero. Zilch. And whom might that be? Why it's none other than my good friend...

Frank Cawood

Hey, Frank, isn't it wonderful to have a "friend" like me? A "friend" who, when you enter his contest and fail to guess a single winner, he trumpets that sad fact from coast-to-coast? And in many foreign countries? Lordy, won't this do wonders for your image?

Fear not for Frank.

I'm only kidding him because he's big enough to take it. (Plus, the fact I'm so relieved to have someone do worse than me.) I'll put Frank's marketing abilities up against just about anyone's. Because, he knows and I know and every good marketing man already knows that, the main lesson of this issue is...

You Can't Know That
You Don't Know!

A dumb marketing guy gets an assignment; the first move he makes is he goes into splendid isolation and, while mentally tramping around in his creative woods, he tries to "dream up" answers. He guesses.

Just like you and I've been doing on those 50 titles. Except that, you and I haven't been so dumb (or irresponsible) to ask a client to back our guesses with his hard-earned money.

No. You see, what you and I have been doing is playing a harmless game. And, the loser - if there is a loser is ol' Frank C. who got none of the winners right.

Poor Frank.

Hold your tears. You see, even though a guy like Frank may lose at a game like this of little consequence, he manages to win and win big when it comes to the major league game of real business. Because then, he does not guess. He tests. Everything. Copy appeals. Headlines. Price. Publications. Position. Etc.

And That's Why Poor
Old Frank Sells Millions
Of Books To Millions
Of People And
Rakes In Millions
Of Dollars!

Let's say you ask a "creative type" to help you hype a drug store. Do you think he could ever guess what's the most profitable item in your store? Toothpaste? Shampoo? Magazines? Prescriptions? Could you guess?

I couldn't. You see, the most profitable, hottest selling item in drugstores comes in a little green and white box and it's called:

The Fleet Enema!

Now tell me: How could you know that without knowing?

Another example of a guy who does not know to whom he markets: He gets this idea for a machine that you blow into and it tells you your alcohol level. What he figures on is putting this gismo in bars where the patrons will use it to see if they've had too much to drink.

Trust me, that man didn't know drunks. Not at all. Want to know why you don't see that gismo in bars? It's simple...

The Drunks Used
It As A Contest Machine
To See Who Could Get
The Highest Number!

You're in real estate and one of your houses needs to be painted. Could you have guessed that the very best color would be yellow? Yup, it's true; yellow has more "curb appeal" for a house than any other color. Why? Who knows? But the point is, you couldn't have guessed that, now could you?

And, it's real dumb to assume things when, with a little effort, you can really know the answers. By the way, you know what you do when you assume things?

You Make An ASS
Of U And ME!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert
AKA "Hangover Halbert"



P.S.	

By the way, only 3 people (Harry Englert, J. L. West and Jack Flanagan) were able to guess even 5 of the 10 winners and the winner of my contest is Harry Englert because he also got 6 of the losers!


P.P.S.	I don't like this issue of my newsletter. As I reread it, it seems to me it's not up to my usual standards. Too much preaching. Too much blowing off of steam. Too little hard info.

Nuts. I've been writing this letter for more than 2 years and this is the second time I've felt this way. And, since I don't charge for that which I am not totally proud...

This Issue Is Free!

I've extended Harry Englert's subscription by 13 months for winning the contest and the rest of you I'm extending for 1-month because...

I'm Not A Politician!


P.P.P.S.	Do you have anything good to say about me? Would you be willing to say it in front of a TV camera? Soon? Please let me know ASAP! Thanks.
 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	
 

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Vanity Radio!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/askk_vanity_radio.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Oh boy!

What you are about to read is probably the best news I've had to report since I started publishing this letter. For some of you, what you are about to read will seem like a message from heaven. For the rest of you, who don't need this info immediately, you'll certainly know someone who does need it and, you can share it with them as an early Christmas present.

Alright, let's get to it. Unless you've been living in a closet for the last few years, you are undoubtedly aware that it's damn near impossible for a direct response company to get a new merchant account. It's really a terrible situation. So bad, in fact, that many people in our industry have had to resort to dealing with total slimebags who make a Chicago loan shark look like a saint.

Moreover, this situation has spawned a new breed of rather sleazy opportunists who promise, for a fee and a percentage, they'll get you a merchant account no matter how many times you've already been turned down.

Personally, I listened to this same song and dance so many times I've grown weary of it. We paid $500 to some guy named James Elliot of Peachtree Financial and got nothing for our money but an abusive phone call. We paid $400 to Kyle Keough & Associates and ended up with squat. We were referred to a company called Mag Card but they couldn't help us. Another guy called and said he could take care of us for $15,000. Someone else offered to allow us, for only $100,000, to buy a piece of a "bank-to-be" that would issue a merchant account to any of its shareholders.

And so on.

So, perhaps you can understand why, when a very nice young lady came to our office and said she could maybe help us get a merchant account, I sloughed her off to Paulette and refused to give her any of my time.

Well, lo and behold, guess what? This young lady took some credit info from Paulette and, two days later, we did indeed have a merchant account. But her fee... oh Lordy, are you ready for this...

Her Fee Was A
Big Fat $150.00!

And that was it. No BS percentages. No trickery. No hassles. Just a nice young lady who delivered what she promised for a fair price. And, wonder of wonders, there are no extra "processing charges" or any other Mickey Mouse tacked-on expenses.

And know this: some people who've offered to solve this problem for us wanted a rate of 11%! Yet, but working with this young lady, we pay a simple, fair and just rate of...

2.65%!

Now, I bet many of you are hoping I'll give you this young lady's name and number, aren't you?

Fear not, I will. However, there are a few other things you need to know: (1) the bank she works with will not take telemarketing firms, (2) you may (we did) have to make a reasonable security deposit in the form of an interest-bearing CD, (3) your "financials" will be closely examined and (4) I'll be looking over her shoulder at the inquiries she receives and, if I'm able to recognize any bad apples, I'll do what I can (considerable) to put the kibosh on the deal.

Enough said. The lady's name is Joyce Gaines and her number is (213) 257-1818.

You know, I can see it now. Some scumsucker, by clandestine means, gets a copy of this issue and reads what I've just written and drool and spittle will begin dripping from his mouth. His greed glands will be amped to the max and he'll be thinking...

"Hey, this dumb little twit doesn't know what she's stumbled onto. I could be getting thousands for what she's offering so cheap. I think I'll look into this and knock her out of the picture and take this deal big time!"

Beware slimebag. As I said, I'll be looking over her shoulder and, if you try any of this kind of crap, you may just find that the amazing, semi-handsome Prince of Print has a little unpleasant surprise for you.

Let's change the subject, shall we? Now, how'd you like some more good news? Well, why not? It's Christmas, isn't it? Listen: I've stumbled into something that's new (at least it's new to me) that can unfreeze your mental sludge and open up brand new vistas of profit for you. There's probably a better name for it but, what I call it is...

Vanity Radio!

You are, of course, familiar with vanity publishing, right? That's where some dork writes a book on the "History of Caterpillars in Iowa" and, he discovers, surprise... surprise... that no one will publish his book. So, what he does is, he goes to a vanity publisher who pretends to have read his manuscript with great enthusiasm and who charges him an arm and a leg to print up 5,000 copies of this book, all of which, (except those he gave to his friends), end up collecting dust in his garage.

Not so with vanity radio. It actually is a valid, viable way to advance your business endeavors...

Providing You Have
Something To Say Of
Some Interest!

Here's an example of how it can work. There's a station in Glendale, California whose call letters are KIEV and you can get them at 870 on your AM dial. Now, what they'll do is sell you a block of time, at a very reasonable rate, in which you can create your own talk show. The way I got onto this was, I was running one of my ads in the L.A. Times, "The Amazing Cash-Flow Secret Of A Desperate Nerd From Ohio," and I get a call from a guy who says the subject of my ad (my report "16 Ways To Sell Anything to Anyone Without Ever Meeting Them In Person") would be a natural for a radio talk show. He then goes on to tell me I can buy an entire hour of radio time for only $1,200 and he'll arrange to have me interviewed by one of the station's announcers.

What the hey? Always eager for another shot at self-aggrandizement, I go for the deal and I send off a check and show up at the station the following Saturday. A few minutes before air time, the guy who's going to interview me bursts into the room and says, "Let's go next door. You sit here and I'll sit there."

And we're off!

I'd already given this guy a list of questions I wanted him to ask me and he did so while, intermittently, giving out the telephone number the listeners could call to order my report.

It worked out pretty good. I did enough business to just about pay for my air time (actually, counting the "back end", I'm probably considerably ahead) and, as a bonus, they gave me a cassette of the show that I am free to use in any way I choose except... I can't re-broadcast it.

There are some very interesting ramifications to this situation. Let's say, for example, you're working on a space ad or a direct mail package and you can't seem to get it on paper exactly the way you want it. Maybe this is the umpteenth time you've had to sit down and bat out a piece on the same thing you can't seem to come up with any fresh ideas. Or maybe you're working on a brand new project and you just can't seem to get it flowing.

In any case, what you might want to try as a novel approach is, to book yourself an hour or 1/2 hour on KIEV or a similar station and arrange to have yourself interviewed by one of their people. You make up a list of questions you want to be asked and also, you let the interviewer ask his own questions as they occur to him. And, since this is a talk show format, you'll also be receiving call-ins from people with additional questions.

In any case, when it's all over, you'll have  a 30-minute or a 60-minute tape recording of you (hopefully at your best), talking about whatever it is you're selling. most likely, you'll hear yourself saying some new things, things you've never said before, or said perhaps quite this way. That will occur because of the unexpected questions that will pop up and because of the adrenaline inherent in the situation.

Now, what you do next is, you get a transcript of the show and you go over it with a fine tooth comb looking for fresh ideas you can transfer over to your print campaigns.

So, the first thing you can use vanity radio for is to get your brain unglued whenever you're stuck.

What else? Ok, since the announcer will be constantly telling the listeners how to call and order what you're selling, you also rake in some money... maybe even a profit.

What else? Ok, let's say you're selling something like financial services that require quite a bit of explanation plus... quite a bit of validation and, being on the radio will give you some.

So maybe, what you might want to do is make dupes of the cassette of your show and send that cassette with a cover letter to your best prospects. By the way, as a little "insurance" you might want to "stack the deck" by having some of your friends standing by to call while you are on the air with questions, the answers of which make you look especially good.

So, what you get from all this is...

1.     help in creating your written sales pitch

2.     orders

3.     credentializing

Plus...

 You Get To Be A
Star For A Day!

Ah, but what's all this wonderfulness going to cost you? An arm? A leg? Your sister's virtue? Not at all, Kemo Sabe. What it currently costs (call KIEV for more exact figure) approximates...

$1,200... for a full hour
$600... for a half hour
$300... for 15-minutes

...or if you just want to buy some 2-minute spots (it would be silly) you can get them for about $200 apiece. So, if you're interested, here's the name and number of the man to call...

Walter Zlotnicki
(213) 245-2388

Now, having said all that, let me say this - the real reason I did the KIEV radio show is, I'm getting ready to film a half hour "infomercial" for cable TV and, doing it first on the radio is a cheap way to "debug" the show. In other words, you can use the facilities of KIEV or, you can record somewhere else and, you just give KIEV the tape and they'll play your show straight through without making any changes.

And, speaking of radio, let me remind you of something. Many years ago I learned that, whenever I'm running full-page ads in newspapers and, I also "advertise my advertising" by using radio spots that reference the newspaper ads that, as a rule, it...

Triples Response

You do it like this: Let's say you're running an ad that exhorts people to buy their Xmas trees from you because... "You won't be cruel, just because it's yule" and you'll give them a real bargain. So, on the day your ad appears, you run a bunch of 60-second spots that go like this...

"Attention everybody
who loves Christmas! Would you like to have a real live northern pine evergreen Christmas tree to help make your holiday season mucho merry? Would you like to buy your Christmas tree in the most convenient way possible and get it at the cheapest price in town? If so, read the Herald Examiner. Read it today. Just look for the page with the big headline that says... 'How to buy a great Christmas tree and still have enough money left over to celebrate New Years.' That's today. In the Herald Examiner. Once again look for the page that says 'How to buy a great Christmas tree and still have enough money left to celebrate New Years.' That's today. In the Herald Examiner. Thank you."

And heck, while I'm on the subject of radio, let's go for more. A couple of weeks ago I was teaching at a marketing boot camp (you should go to one) in Fort Lauderdale, Florida and I met a copywriter named Bob Rutz. He told me about an outfit called American Radio Network that has midnight to 8 A.M. slots on stations in 4 major areas. Those areas in California are: Riverside, L.A. & the "Valley," and Fresno. They also have a station in Hawaii. Now, apparently, they'll play your canned 1-hour show...

For Only $65.00!

They say that you own each show and you can run it on other stations. Also, they get 4-minutes of your hour to run their commercials. Also, according to my erstwhile researcher, "Cruel Johnny Carlton," they also want you to come in and do a test tape to make sure you're not pathological or sound like Minnie Mouse. There's more: They want you to commit to your time slot every week, they want you to attend 4-weekends at their studio (they're kidding, I hope) to learn how to handle the studio. And, since they're not set up for live shows yet, you definitely must pre-tape or can all your shows.

Listen: I haven't checked all this out but it does sound interesting. So, if you want more info you can call them for their written information at (213) 468-0080 and, you can call Friday noon to 7 P.M. only, at (213) 468-0095 and ask for Jim Guthrie.

Who knows? Maybe this will come to naught and be a total bust as far as you're concerned. Or maybe, it'll work out. Give it a try, if it fits within your scheme of things.

Let's change gears and go on to another subject. There's something I've been wanting to tell you for a long time but, so far, I've never been able to make it fit into the "theme" of any of my letters. Well, it doesn't fit into the theme of this one either but, I'm going to tell you anyway.

So there.

And, so anyway, years ago, I was sitting at the feet of Ed Mayer, the "Dean of Direct Mail," and he taught me many amazing things. Here's one I've never forgotten: Ok, let's say you have a successful sales letter that pulls in a certain percent of orders. Then, if you wait 3-weeks and then mail what appears to be a carbon copy of your original letter with a note that says, "Here's a copy of my earlier letter - still waiting for your reply," that you'll pull in about 60% to 70% of what you pulled in with the original letter.

But here's the kicker: If you mail the carbon copy version first, (without ever having mailed the original) you'll pull in more than you would have by mailing the original!

Now, here's another direct mail idea that can dramatically increase your response. Let's say you're mailing a piece that includes a brochure. What you do is you convert your brochure into an ad, run that ad in a prestigious publication like a national newspaper and then, you have extra copies of that ad printed up... and printed on newsprint!

Then, you replace your brochure with the newsprint reprint and, in your sales letter, you say something like...

"Dear Friend,

   I'm sending you a copy of a recent piece about how to cure poverty that appeared in  _________ ___________ _________."

Etc. etc.

You'll get more readership, more believability and more orders!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert


Airhead of the Airways
P.S.	

Do you know any more stations across the country who use this vanity radio idea? I'd like to know about them.


P.P.S	1988 has been good to me. I sure hope it was for you, too. I want to wish you the happiest of holidays and a...

Merry Christmas!
And/Or
A Happy Hanukkah!
And For Sure
A Happy New Year!

God bless you.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The First Step If You Are At Ground Zero!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zfkl_first_step.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

In a recent (3/1/89) issue of DM NEWS, there is a letter from a young man named Calvin D. Black who says he just graduated from college and he wants to know how to go about becoming a wealthy direct mail/mail order entrepreneur.

DM NEWS had an answer for him: He got an info kit from the Direct Marketing Association and the meeting dates of his local chapter of that organization. DM NEWS also told him they hope to see him at a convention real soon.

How pitiful.

The chances of meeting someone who will help you become a successful direct response entrepreneur at any kind of marketing convention is about the same as getting the Catholic Church to start passing out birth control pills. Listen: Many, if not most, of the readers of this newsletter are already expert in various aspects of direct marketing and already wealthy. However, for the moment, I'm going to pretend that none of you are (yet) as successful as you want to be. I'm going to pretend that all of you are just like Calvin Black and you either want to become a wealthy direct response entrepreneur or else you want to use direct response methods to punch up the profits of another, more conventional business.

Where do you start? What's the first step if you are at ground zero? Well, it sure as hell isn't to go to a marketing convention! No. The very first step is to become grounded in the basic and enduring principles that are the foundation of every successful direct marketing effort. And, the way you do this is by reading and re-reading the most important advertising book every written which is...

Scientific Advertising
- by Claude Hopkins
Available from Crain Books
(312) 679-5500

And, trust me on this: You should not read any other books until you have read Scientific Advertising at least twice and preferably, three or four times. In fact, David Ogilvy feels so strongly about this book that he says no one should be allowed to create advertising until he has read this book at least seven times.

I can't disagree. And the reason you should read this particular book several times, before you read anything else is, it will give you a hard-core, bedrock foundation of truth that will make it difficult for other authors who are "pretend experts" to lead you astray with their "silly notions" about what makes marketing work. Unfortunately, most people who write about (or teach) marketing aren't just wrong... they are dangerous. You see, most of these authors and/or teachers aren't players, they are simply B.S. artists who've managed to con their way through life without ever having to back their ideas with their own money and...

If A Man Ain't A Player,
He Can't Possibly
Understand The Game!

Check this out: Recently, I came across a book titled On the Art of Writing Copy by Herschell Gordon Lewis. It's a big hardback and, when I first saw it, I thought "Oh boy!" because it "looked" like it might contain a lot of valuable info. I guess I'll never know because, quite frankly, I found the book to be so silly, I couldn't force myself to read much of it. I did browse enough however, to grasp the idea that Mr. Lewis considers clarity supremely important. He's right; clarity is important. But I think Mr. Lewis is just a teeny confused on how to achieve it. Here's a direct quote from page 388:

The First Rule Of "If" Subdecree

"Logic stands behind the writer who makes an action condition for the buyer, since buyer-control is proper stroking: but to give this control to the seller through an "if" reference suggests seller superiority, which can provoke buyer antagonism."

Zowie, those are words to live by, aren't they? And the rest of the book is even more silly. It gets into stuff like "The Subjunctive Avoidance Commandment", and so much other nonsense it could win the Guinness World Record for incoherent babble. Mr. Lewis also goes to great lengths to criticize a lot of ads he's reprinted in his book and, once again, to a limited degree, he's right: The ads are awful. But mostly, they are short-copy, agency-created ads that truly aren't even worth the bother of analysis. It's sort of like someone trying to impress you by bragging about he can outrun a group of bedridden paraplegics.

Soon after reading (or trying to read) this stupid book, I came across a column written by Mr. Lewis in the June 1988 issue of Direct Marketing magazine wherein he informs his readers that everybody he knows, including himself, is writing better because of the invention of word processors. Can you imagine that? Here's a guy who fancies himself as a copywriter and yet...

He Doesn't Even Seem To Be Able
To Grasp The Difference Between
Writing And Typing!

Word processors may help you type better but there's no way in the world that staring dumbly at a CRT screen can help you in any way whatsoever when it comes to writing. World class copywriting (salesmanship-in-print) is not a bag of tricks nor can it be learned by memorizing a bunch of idiotic rules spewed out by a chaotic mind. No, you learn how to sell by doing it. And, if you want to be supreme in your efforts, you learn how to do it first in person and then you transfer your efforts to print.

I got to wondering: "Could I be wrong about this Herschell guy? Could he possibly be as much of a marketing moron as his book suggests?" I got to discussing this with some friends and clients of mine, Sam and Leslie Fishbein (they own Casey Fine Furniture in Denver) and they told me Herschell Lewis did two newspaper ads for them and the results were so dismal it was like the ads never ran!

Look, it doesn't feel especially good to me to spend so much time knocking down some clownish writer like Herschell Lewis. I'm sure he's had his successes and some satisfied clients. The law of averages says that if you toss enough ca-ca at a wall, surely some of it will stick. But damnit, pretend experts can be very hazardous to your bank account and so can their books and teachings. All this reminds me how Claude Hopkins (the greatest advertising man who ever lived) was once asked to examine some college textbooks on advertising and advise the publishers on how to improve them.

"Burn them!" he said.

He went on to point out that the publishers had no right to mislead beginners this way. He said that by the time the students were done studying these books, they'd be so damaged it would take six years or so to get them back to zero. And can you imagine what Claude Hopkins would've had to say about Herschell Lewis?

And here's a flash for the aforementioned Calvin Black:

Herschell Gordon Lewis Is Typical
Of Whom You Will Meet At
Marketing Conventions!

Beware, young man. You'd better be careful of what you read and to whom you listen because, if you are not first grounded in the bedrock fundamentals, you can end up bewildered, broke and hopelessly disillusioned. On the other hand (or, on the "sunshine side" of the ledger as Paul Harvey says) there are a few good books you can read safely (after you've read Scientific Advertising) that are written by real experts who also know what it's like to be a player. Books like these:

The Robert Collier Letter Book
- by Robert Collier
Available from Carl Galletti
(609) 896-3415 

The First Hundred Million
- by E. Haldeman-Julius
It's out-of-print so you may have to go
to the Library of Congress to read it.
I did and it was well worth the trip.

Breakthrough Advertising
- by Eugene Schwartz
Available from Boardroom Books
(212) 239-9000

How To Write A Good Advertisement
- by Vic Schwab
Available from the Wilshire Book Company
(213) 875-1711

7 Steps To Freedom
- by Ben Suarez
Available from the Suarez Corporation
(216) 494-4282

My Life In Advertising
- by Claude Hopkins
Available from Crain Books

There are a few more. But not many, and even this short list will keep you occupied for quite a spell. And what a wonderful journey of discovery you will have when you read these books! So many lightbulbs will be going off in your head, those around you will be making a mad dash for sunglasses! (Call Joe Sugarman.) And look, may I respectfully suggest that you get everything on advertising that I have written or recorded. This would include all my back issues, the BORON LETTERS, my seminar tapes, and so on. My office number is (213) 273-7053 and we're open from 9:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M. West Coast time and you are just plain nuts if you don't study all my stuff.

Does that sound self-serving to you? I suppose it is in a way. But counterbalance it with this: My income from my newsletter, my tapes, my seminars and so on is microscopic compared to what I make from doing what I teach. And often, I give the money from my teaching to charity.

No, I'm not altruistic. It's just that I already drag in enough money (actually, way more money than enough) to keep any sane man happy. And besides, I have a fire in my belly to teach the truth and to do what I can to "contain the damage" that is being done by so many marketing morons who pass themselves off as "experts".

Enough. Enough. Enough. Enough. Ok, now, let's say you've read all the material I've thus far recommended and you are now grounded in the basic realities of what makes marketing work. What's the next step? Simply this:

You Must Heighten Your Awareness
Of What's Working Now!

Hark unto me. Fundamentals never change but current variations of how to best use those fundamentals are something you must always stay on top of. In other words: It's not enough to know that everybody wants a bargain... you must also know what people currently consider a bargain. (My first electronic calculator, a Craig, cost me $265 but now I'd be reluctant to pay much over $15.)

And so forth. And here's how you keep current: You must immediately begin to systematically monitor all media that contains a lot of successful direct response advertising. This means you should leaf through every issue of the National Enquirer, Weekly World News and similar tabloids. You should religiously go through the Wall Street Journal, USA Today ("News McNuggets") and any other daily newspapers you come across that carry a lot of mail order ads. Go through Cosmopolitan, Popular Mechanics, Salesman's Opportunity, Success, and, in general, make a determined effort to ferret out and monitor as many publications as you find that seem to be working consistently for mail order entrepreneurs.

And buy as much stuff by mail as you can. Get on hundreds of mailing lists. Become a student of mail order catalogs like Sharper Image and DAK. Listen folks, what we are trying to do here is become immersed in what's working now. Here's something else: Hire yourself a kid to watch cable TV for you. Have that kid tape every direct response commercial he can find plus all those 1/2 hour "sellavision" shows.

Drench Yourself In This Stuff!

Onward. Let's go to step three. What you do now is you buy yourself about 2,000 3x5 index cards. And, on those cards, you start writing ideas that you got form all those books you've read and ideas from all that current stuff you are monitoring. You should also have several hundred headlines written on these cards.

Now, here's how your life begins to settle in: Every once in a while, you re-read from the classic books I have recommended. You constantly leaf through the publications I've recommended (plus others you've discovered yourself) and you constantly view those new sellavision tapes that kid (who is now brain damaged from all that cable TV he's been watching) keeps bringing you.

And you keep adding ideas and headlines (one to a card) to all those 3x5 index cards.

And, at least once a week, you shuffle through those 3x5 cards after all your "monitoring work". And every once in a while you say "Hmn? Look at that. Maybe that idea could be used over here? And hey, maybe I could modify that idea this guy is using in the Enquirer to sell Lucky Charms so it could be used to sell an investment course in the Wall Street Journal. Say, maybe that couponing technique to force distribution that Hopkins wrote about could be updated to help me force people into the store to buy my widgets. Hey, maybe..."

And so on. What you are looking for defies total classification. You're trying to find an idea you can juxtapose, a headline you can modify, a "trigger" that gives you the "aha experience", a "crossover" adaptation that can be switched from TV to print (or vice versa), an inspiration, a vision, a breakthrough concept, a... a... a...

Aw nuts. Maybe I can make it clearer by giving you a couple of multi-million dollar real life examples? Listen: Once upon a time, having grounded my sweet self in the true fundamentals of marketing, I was merrily going about the process of "heightening my awareness" when, among other things, I became aware that a small number of people were repeatedly running ads that sold books on how to get all the various government benefits (including social security) that all of us, as taxpayers, have coming.

Hmn?

Well, this got filed away in my subconscious and forgotten until one day I discovered I'd lost my social security card. When I went to the SS office in Akron, Ohio I was appalled. Most of the other people waiting in that office were elderly and they were treated like dirt! They were given numbers like victims in a concentration camp and made to wait hours and sometimes days for service. These people were hurting. Often, for an elderly person, a social security check means the difference between eating dog food or not. And yet, these miserable old timers were treated worse than dogs by sullen bureaucratic clerks who just didn't give a damn. Something needed to be done.

Hmn?

One day after that, I was visiting the offices of the Akron Beacon Journal on a totally unrelated matter when I happened to mention the plight of these SS victims. "You know," said the guy from the Journal, "we used to print this government form, REQUEST FOR STATEMENT OF EARNINGS, but we don't do it anymore."

"Why not?" I asked.

"Well," he said, "that form helps a person find out how much he's paid into social security and, whenever we reprint it, even if we bury it on page 74 or something, we still get like 26,520 replies."

"Geez," I said, "that works out to you getting a response from something like 17% of your entire circulation."

"Yep, that's true," he said. "People really seem to need this info and they don't seem to get satisfied when they contact the SS but our newspaper isn't equipped to handle that volume of mail."

Boy, oh boy. I knew someone who'd just love to handle that volume of mail and my "hmn machine" was working full tilt now. Hmn? Hmn? Hmn?

Hmn? Hmn?
Hmn? Hmn? Hmn?

So I hired some people to collect every scrap of info put out by the SS and reduce it to a very simple, fast-reading, accurate book that gave the folks the real scoop on how to maximize the SS benefits they had coming. And I wrote an ad -- "How To Collect From Social Security At Any Age" -- and, at the bottom of the ad, I had two coupons instead of just one. You filled in the left-hand coupon (it was the REQUEST FOR STATEMENT OF EARNINGS) and sent it to us and we'd send it to the government and you'd find out, right to the penny, how much you had already paid in to social security. At the same time, you could fill in the coupon on the right side and send it to us with a small payment (only $3.00) and we'd send you our book that revealed how to get the most benefits from that money you paid in.

Do you see what happened here? I had grounded myself in the true fundamentals of marketing, I had heightened my awareness of what's working now and then...

My Unconscious Mind Connected The Dots!

But, the difference between me and all those non-player "pretend experts" was that, because I had done my homework and paid my dues, I connected the right dots!

And made a net profit of over a million dollars.

Another example: Another time, operating under the same dynamics "grounded and aware", it came to my attention that the new phenomena of computer letters was, on the average, enhancing direct mail response by 300%! Unfortunately, back then, I didn't have much money and the programming cost of creating a computer letter was enormous. Besides that, not very many people even knew how to do the programming. But one fine day, while "sharpening my awareness", I read about a little old lady who researched family names and, once her research was done, she would send a postcard to everyone in her county who had the last name she had just finished researching. In other words, all her postcards started out "Dear Mr. Halbert" or whatever.

And... and... and... AHA! Eureka! Zowie! My mental dot connector did its job and told me I could gather together the addresses of all the Joneses in the U.S., type a letter to them (once), offset print as many copies of that letter as there were Joneses, and it would look just like an individually typed personal or state-of-the-art computer letter.

The idea worked and brought in $21,900,000.

Think about it: 21 million dollars and change from one valid idea. So, the real first steps to becoming a wealthy direct mail/mail order entrepreneur are:

1.	Ground yourself in the fundamentals.
2.	Heighten your awareness of "What's Working Now".
3.	Capture ideas, headlines, techniques, thoughts, etc. on 3x5 index cards and review them (deal them out on your kitchen table or desk like you would a deck of cards) at least once a week.

And there's more. What I'm about to give you is the most important piece of advice you'll ever get concerning this subject. Do this: After you've "captured" what appears to be your first viable idea ("Hey, Marge, let's sell a report on the secrets of how to profit in L.A. real estate to everyone in the area who just got their real estate license!"), you sashay down to your local stationery store and buy 1,000 #10 white envelopes. You then scurry over to your local quickie printer and you have him print your address in black ink in the upper left hand corner of those envelopes. Then you get the names and addresses of 1,000 of the people who might be interested in your offer and you sit down and...

You Address Those Envelopes!

Not your spouse, your kids, your secretary -- you do it. And then, you go to your local post office and get 1,000 first-class postage stamps and you lick 'em and you stick 'em. Next, you sit down and, in one sitting, you write the best sales letter you can to those people. You describe what you have to offer and you ask them to buy it and send you money. And then, if you don't type yourself, you take that letter to a typist and have it typed and then go get it printed. And then, you sign all 1,000 letters and you fold them and you stuff them into the envelopes. Then you seal the envelopes and you take those letters to the post office and mail them.

What? Aren't we going to wait until you know how to write a good sales letter? Until you get things fine tuned a little? NO! NO! NO! NO! This is how you learn to write! You don't wait for anything! It is movement that produces expertise. Not meditation.

Come closer. Listen, I swear this is true: There is something that happens on a cellular level, something that indelibly imprints itself on your being, some kind of neural knowledge that can only be achieved by physically doing a mailing all by yourself.

Sound crazy? Too unsophisticated for a smart cookie like you? Consider this: I am probably responsible for more successful direct mail than anyone else in history. Just one of my letters is currently being mailed at the rate of 100,000 per day. My direct mail letters probably generate more money in any given month than most other "experts" are able to generate in a lifetime. I know more about how to make computer generated mail work, more about how to massage a database, more about how to extract meaningful data from a mathematical regression analysis, more about the results of different A/B split run tests etc., etc., etc. than anybody you'll ever meet in your entire lifetime and... and... and...

I Still Sit Down Several Times A Year And
I Become A "Kitchen Table Commando" And
 I Personally Address Envelopes And
Fold Letters, Etcetera!

It's kind of ironic, isn't it? There sit the Herschells of this world, staring dumbly into a CRT screen mystically believing that a machine will somehow help them write better and there sits Gary at this kitchen table stuffing letters into envelopes just like a rank beginner and yet... and yet... and yet...

I Keep Producing Winner After Winner And
My Letters Drag In Tens Of Millions
Of Dollars, Year After Year!

How can this be? I don't even understand "The First Rule of If-Subjunctive" to say nothing of "The Comparative Conditional Declension Syndrome"!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert

Vitriol Incorporated
P.S.	

I want to really help you "get" my message this month so, to that end, I'm going an extra step and I'm sending you a couple of instructive free gifts. One is a copy of that Social Security ad I told you about and then other is that letter I mentioned that dragged in over 20 million dollars. Read the letter especially carefully. It is, I believe, the most widely mailed letter in history. The idea for it was conceived in my mind when I read that article about the little old lady and then, I did what I've told you to do: I wrote the letter immediately and I addressed, stuffed, and stamped the envelopes myself. It didn't work (completely) right away but the "feedback" from that experience made me understand, on a "cellular" basis, what I needed to do and I kept modifying it (based on what my movement taught me) until I got it right.


P.P.S.	DM NEWS, in spite of what one staffer wrote to Calvin Black, is a very good publication and you should get it along with a few other direct response related periodicals (I'll name them another time) but only after you are grounded properly so you can't be so easily misinformed by very confused folks who are in love with their word processors.

And finally, when you tune in next month...

I'M GOING TO TEACH YOU THE REAL ART OF WRITING COPY!

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## I Suggest You Commit

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zhkk_image_suicide.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Have you ever wondered how I decide what to write about in this newsletter every month?

One man suggested I write a year or two's worth in advance and then go on vacation. But I don't like that idea. To me, it seems like cheating. I feel obligated to try to make each issue both timeless and timely. I don't always succeed but I sure try. In any case, most often, I don't decide what I'm going to write about until just before I sit down to do it.

It keeps me on edge. It keeps me fresh.

In truth, I've taken a leaf from my favorite entertainer, Jimmy Buffet. He's the singer/songwriter of "Margaritaville," "A Pirate Looks At 40" and many other musical classics that are dear to my heart. Anyway, somewhere in the middle of each of his concerts, he asks all the other musicians to leave the stage and he ends up there all alone with nothing but his guitar and his talent. He does this, he says, because it keeps him sharp and in touch with his audience.

It's a good idea. And, in my own way, I do the same thing. How I do it is by traveling all over the U.S. visiting with my clients and also giving talks before various marketing organizations. Recently, I've spoken to direct marketing groups in Seattle, Washington, Portland, Oregon, Redondo Beach, California, Cherry Hill, New Jersey, Chicago, Illinois and Spokane, Washington.

Usually, my talks are not what people expect. You see, I strive to teach people what they really need to know as opposed to what they think they need to know. Most often, marketing groups expect me to speak on how to write direct mail copy. But usually, even though they don't know it, most people in marketing simply aren't ready for a discussion on how to write copy. You see, it doesn't really matter much about the quality of your direct mail copy if you haven't yet learned how to get your mail delivered, opened and read. To me, this point is so important, so vitally important, that, at the risk of being redundant, I'm going to spend a few moments discussing it here once again.

I make no excuses for this. Nothing is truly redundant if your audience hasn't yet completely got the message.

So, to begin with, here is the typical sequence of events that go into the making of a direct mail promotion. First, the camera ready copy is delivered to a printer who prints the letters, the envelopes and everything else that makes up the package. Then, all this is delivered to a lettershop that folds and stuffs everything into the carrier envelopes, seals the envelopes and arranges them in zip sequence, ties them in bundles and trundles them off to the loading dock of the nearest post office.

What happens at the loading dock of the P.O. is that the letters are weighed to determine how many there are and how much postage is due. Then, the lettershop pays the postage, gets a receipt and gives that receipt to the mailer.

What happens next is the post office routes this already sorted mail to wherever it's supposed to go and sends it on its way. When your mail arrives in the city to which it is addressed, it is sorted into carrier route sequence and then given to the local carriers who deliver it to your prospects.

Ho-hum. Yawn. This is pretty boring stuff, isn't it?

Except for one thing. You see, quite often, this is not what happens to your mail. Try the following more realistic scenario and see if it doesn't wake you up a bit.

First, let's say you've contracted for 100,000 pieces of mail to be printed, addressed, folded, stuffed, sealed and delivered to the post office. O.K. What  really  is likely to happen is, first, perhaps only 90,000 of your letters actually will get delivered to the loading dock of the P.O. Why? The answer is simple. You see, it is much more profitable for a lettershop to produce only 90% of your mail and then charge you for producing 100% of it. But wait! What about that receipt? How in the world do you get a postal employee to sign a receipt saying you deposited 100,000 pieces of mail when you only deposited 90,000?

I'll leave that one up to you.

So anyway, what really happens next is, a portion of your mail is thrown away right there at the loading dock.

And, moving right along, what happens to the rest of your mail that actually makes it to your city of destination is that more of it gets thrown away by the various mail carriers who just don't want to deal with it.

And, of course, since you're mailing bulk rate, none of your letters get forwarded to those people who have moved -- even though they did leave a  forwarding address.

What does all this mean? Let's do some arithmetic and see if we can't get a clearer picture of what's happening here. Take a gander at these numbers:

10%
17%
7%
Total  34%

Here's what the numbers mean: The 10% represents my guess as to how much of the mail you paid for is not delivered to the post office by your lettershop. NOTE: Do not forget, however, that there are many totally honest lettershop owners who never cheat at all! What I'm saying here is that 10% is my "guesstimate" as to how much lettershops on the average do not produce.

Now, let's go on to the 17% figure. What that represents is how much of your PROPERLY ADDRESSED bulk rate mail does not get delivered. I got this number from reading articles in various marketing publications who were reporting on studies done on this subject.

And lastly, the 7% figure represents the average percentage of bad names that are on almost any list that cannot be reached by any class of mail.

Hmn? What we've got here is a situation whereby...

Only 66% Of The
Mail You Paid For
Got Delivered To
Your Prospect's Mailbox!

Cheer up, it gets worse. Recently, the Wall Street Journal reported on a study that proved that Americans throw away 57% of all advertising mail (bulk rate) without even opening the envelope. But that's the good news. That study was done a few years ago. The most recent study shows that now...

75% Of All Advertising
Mailed Is Discarded
Unopened!

Uh, let's see now. If only 66% of your mail gets delivered and 75% of that 66% gets tossed, that means only 16.5% of all that mail you spent big bucks on ever gets delivered and opened.

Do you see why I often am reluctant to teach people how to write better copy before they understand the above? I mean really, what's the use? What does it matter how brilliant your words are if 83.5% of them are trashed before your letter is ever looked at?

So, once again - mail 1st Class. Make it personal. And make it look personal!

And now, back to the question I posed at the beginning of this letter on how I decide what to write about each month. What I try to do, by keeping "in touch" through all my speaking engagements and in-person client work, is not so much to find out what people expect to hear from me but rather to learn what they really...

Need To Hear!

And what is it my sensitive, ever-questing antennae tell me my readers need to be advised of? What is it at this precise point in time that I believe you, as a reader of this newsletter and a marketing person needs most to consider?

You're not gonna like this. At least, many of you are not. Because, what I'm going to suggest is going to make many of you uncomfortable. You're going to fight me on this. You're going to say that, in your case, I'm off base. Nevertheless, I'm still going to suggest you consider this radical action and here it is...

I Suggest You
Commit "Image Suicide!"

Please allow me to explain this concept and I think you'll then understand why it's such and important idea. Question: What group of professionals have the highest rate of suicide (real suicide) in the U.S.? Answer: Psychiatrists.

Why? Well, first off, most psychiatrists are nutso anyway but that's not the entire story -- You see, shrinks are supposed to have all the answers. Therefore, if a psychiatrist breaks down sobbing and confesses he can't control his life, that action will be devastating to his image as a great, all-knowing father figure to whom you can trust your deepest and darkest thoughts and feelings.

And so, rather than destroy his image, he literally destroys himself!

Really. Literally. For real.

Now, let's talk about how this relates to marketing. One of the groups I addressed most recently is PIMA which stands for Professional Insurance Mass Marketers Association. There are many good people in that organization. But boy, are they ever being shortchanged by the people who do their creative work. In fact, of all the groups I've addressed over the last 15 years, I believe their direct mail may be the very worst I've  ever seen. What's particularly awful, is they are selling a rather sophisticated financial product, yet their mail looks like it was put together by a carnival barker.

Conversely, many members of PIMA are difficult to enlighten because so many of them are so "frozen" in their thinking and overly concerned about their "image." Truly, this particular group is nothing if not conservative. Conservative, traditional, hidebound and emotionally frozen.

And when it comes to their direct mail, you can be 100% sure all of it is "conventional."

Conventional Junk Mail!

Now, please don't get me wrong. I don't mean to demean this fine group of people. No. What I'd really like to do for them is bring them out of the dark ages as far as their marketing is concerned. But it's tough. Especially so, because "image suicide" is never easy and this is especially true for people caught in the "previous investment trap" of being steeped in conventional wisdom. However, if you've got the guts to give it a try...

The Payoff Can
Be Enormous!

An example. Years ago when I was still a partner in Halbert's Inc., the coat-of-arms company, I was known far and wide as the "boy wonder" of direct mail. Everybody back then thought my innate creativity (?) was the key to my success but really, there was a far more important factor. Namely...

I Was Always
Willing To Learn!

From anyone. Friend, foe, moron, genius...ANYONE! You see, I believe a truly wise man can even learn something from a moron but a person locked into his "expert image" can't learn anything from anyone.

Anyway, back in those days there was a brilliant man named Ed Mayer who taught classes all around the country on the subject of direct mail. Ed was known (deservedly) as the "Dean of Direct Mail." In any case, one of his courses was on basic direct mail and the other was on advanced direct mail. Well, it came to pass that I decided to attend Ed's "Basic Direct Mail Institute" at the Forty Acres Club in Austin, Texas (a great town) and, while there, people expressed amazement at my presence.

"But you're the best," they'd say. "What in the world are you doing here at a direct mail course for beginners?"

To me, it was simple. I went to the basic course to make sure there was nothing I had forgotten or had overlooked or simply never known. I went there because I've learned I can learn a lot from the fresh, uncluttered minds of beginners. I went there because...

I Wasn't Nearly As
Concerned About My
"Image" As I Was
About My Results!

But what if my "image' as the all-knowing direct mail expert would have stopped me from going? What would have happened then? It's no big mystery. What would've happened then is I simply wouldn't have learned all that neat stuff I'm still using today.

So, the first benefit of "image suicide" is that...

It Gives You The
Psychological Freedom
To Learn!

Here's another thing. In my opinion, the profession of advertising has more incompetence per capita than any other American profession except psychiatry. In fact, most ad agencies don't even know what good advertising is. They don't even know what they are trying to do! Hear this. Good advertising is simply...

Salesmanship Multiplied!

Howsoever, you can't multiply zeros! Therefore, if you don't have any salesmanship ability in the first place, how in the world are you going to multiply it? You're not. You're going to end up creating stupid, expensive campaigns that feature dancing raisins and cute little jingles.

Or, if you end up working for people who belong to PIMA, you'll create direct mail that totally ignores the vitally important fact that...

The People Of America
Sort Through Their Mail
While Standing Over
A Wastebasket!

I guess I caused quite a stir with my talk. Those people had a jillion questions for me. And later, at a cocktail party, some people were going around saying, "Did you hear that arrogant SOB? Who does he think he is anyway, going around saying our direct mail is the worst he's ever seen?"

Ah, but there were others. The truly smart ones who were willing to learn, who said, "Yeah, but did you hear what he was saying? How much sense it makes? Let's try it."

And those people called me and subscribed to this letter and opened up a new avenue of communication and those people, I bet, will soon have more business from PIMA than all the rest of those "frozen" marketing experts (I call them "shallow breathers") who are so protective of their precious "image" that they can't be open-minded enough to really learn anything about anything.

Think I'm wrong? Well, you just keep your eye on Jackalyn Stouffer, Catherine L. Cox, Mike Garee and Susan Raef.

Now, let's go on to a discussion about how "image suicide" can immediately help your bottomline profits. Another of the groups I spoke with recently is a group of coin dealers who were charged $5,000 apiece to attend a 3-day seminar where I was (as the guest of Jay Abraham) the featured speaker. Let me ask you something: What would you say to a group of hard-nosed, capitalistic coin dealers who paid $5,000 to hear YOUR pearls of wisdom? Here was my question:


"Is There Some Law That Says
That In Order To Be A Coin
Dealer You Have To Have A
'Charisma Bypass'?"

The reason I asked that question is because so many coin dealers seem to me to take their business so seriously that they are so stiff they almost squeak when they walk. They give their companies names like FIRST AMALGAMATED INTERNATIONAL FIDUCIARY BULLION AND COIN DEPOT OF NEW ENGLAND and so forth.

Kinda puts you off, doesn't it?

A far better name would be John Smith Coin Company. You know, people respond to people. Warm people. Consider this: Many utterly beautiful women spend many lonely nights all by themselves. Why? Simply because, when an eligible, young man sees one of those frozen-faced beauties in a nightclub or a restaurant, he is often too intimidated to make an approach. Is that what you want? To have your would-be customers come to your cold, forbidding place of business, enter your marble lobby, gaze wonderingly at the 747 jet-type console manned by your haughty, aloof, Nordic receptionist and then felt a little ashamed because all he wanted was to buy an Indian Head penny or a few silver dollars?

What's that? You say you don't have a big, imposing building with a ice-cold receptionist? You say you do most of your business through ads or direct mail? Not to worry. You can still practice intimidation with the format of your mail or the "look" of your ads. Just print your letterhead so it looks like it would be used by a big New York law firm. Use sentences like this:

"Please be advised that we have been informed of your possible need for a comprehensive insurance vehicle encompassing all aspects of your fiduciary liability."

Yuk! And while I'm at it, you want to know the silliest question I hear over and over whenever I lecture? It goes something like this:

"Yes, Gary. What you are saying is fine for most products and services but our customers are different. They are more sophisticated. You can't talk down to them."

Whoa! I don't talk down to anyone. Except, of course, true idiots like most attorneys and all psychiatrists. You know, I am probably responsible for more successful direct response advertising than almost anyone you'll ever meet. My clients are often huge, multi-national, multi-million dollar corporations that sell incredibly sophisticated products and services. Yet, no matter how large the company or how complex the product, I always slave to bring the sales message down to a human level. And, one of the ways to do that is to "break the image" that is normally used in their sales literature. You see, another big advantage of "image suicide" is...

You Make Yourself
More Accessible To
Your Customers!

Lighten up. Let your hair down a little. Let people see a few of your warts. Come down off that lofty perch. Stop trying to impress and start trying to "humanize" your selling efforts. Hey. Most of us are not curing cancer or splitting the atom. The fate of the western world truly does not hinge on the success of our efforts.

But don't get me wrong. I'm not saying you shouldn't take yourself seriously. Or that you should act like a clown. Or that you have to be as crude and rude and ridiculous as me. I'm also not saying what you are doing is not important. What I am saying is that the girls who get the most dates (and the ads that make the most sales) are those that appear warm, non-threatening and assessable.

And human.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	Gary C. Halbert
Flawed Human

 

P.S.	I feel funny about this issue of my letter. It scares me a little. It's not what my readers are used to. Reading it over I realize that this issue is really a lecture. As you know, most of my issues are jam packed with immediately practical "how to" info that is extremely specific.

Well, fear not. Next month I'm reverting to style and I'm going to reveal a little something I've been saving that just might double your income. It's a little-known "remote control" mass marketing technique I bet you've never heard of.

So there. But please, in the meantime, give some thought to what I've written here.

It's important.


P.P.S	By the way, if you'd like to order a video of Sir Gary "in concert," open the sealed envelope. Otherwise, there's no need since all it contains is a crass commercial message.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Blitzkrieg

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zflk_blitzkrieg_paradigm.htm

From:
Way-West and North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

This month I'm going to teach you how to beat the stock market.

Actually, that's an understatement. With what I'm going to teach you in this issue, you will be able... if you so choose... to go out and slaughter the market.

There are a zillion different ways people use to try and buy and sell stocks at a profit. I want to begin here by explaining to you two of them that are as opposite as opposites can be. What I'm talking about is people who invest for the long term and people who are extremely short term investors.

Long Term Investors: These people, in my opinion, have got to be almost brain dead. Let's say you want to assemble a nice portfolio of solid, blue chip stocks that... 20 years from now... you can cash in to pay for your child's college education. How could you even begin to make an intelligent selection of companies to invest in?

Do you realize how different the world is now from what it was 20 years ago? Or 10 years ago? Or 6 months ago? Or, how much the world has changed just since yesterday?

Ten years ago, the most coveted piece of office equipment in the world was an IBM Selectric Typewriter. Nowadays, you couldn't give them away as paperweights.

Speaking of IBM, for years it was thought of as the bluest of the blue chips. In January of 1987 you could have bought it for around $87.00 a share. Six and a half years later, in June of 1993, it was down to under $20.00. That must have been a gut-wrenching feeling for all those long term, blue chip only investors, dontcha think?

Today, you can buy IBM for about $104.00 per share. So, I guess it's a "safe" blue chip again, right? Heck, IBM's heavy into technology and... since technology changes so slowly these days... how could it now drop to $20.00 like it did five years ago... or... even fall to $43.00 like where it was just 36 months ago? It's a joke. The stock market is a roller coaster no matter how solid a company may seem today. Not only that, even if you had bought IBM five years ago at $20.00 and sold it today for $100.00, it would still be chump change as far as profits go... compared to... what I am going to teach you in this issue.

BUT, KNOW THIS: Things are not just changing fast now, they are changing almost at the speed of light. Making ANY long term investment in the stock market is truly a "sucker's play."

Who could have predicted Russia would now be a capitalist country? Would, 10 years ago, you have ever believed network television would broadcast a steady barrage of jokes about the shape of the penis of the President of the United States of America? Who could've possibly believed O.J. Simpson would be found "not guilty." (I still can't wrap my mind around that one!) Who could have believed a young woman who accompanied me to the Cannes Film Festival... and stunned... even the "we've seen everything" Paparazzi... when she walked into the ocean until her T-shirt was soaked and then took it off with a flourish, turned around and walked calmly back to the beach... would now... be married to a stuttering, insecure Episcopalian priest? Who could have predicted the company I started with a 1-page letter in 1968 would have been sold last month for 90,000,000 dollars? Who could have forecast... that... so many people you were certain were deeply in love five years ago would now be divorced? How fast did that last "cutting-edge" computer you purchased remain "cutting edge"? (Truth be told, it was out-of-date before it was out-of-the-box!) Who would have guessed... that... whether it was legal or not for the President of the United States to lie under oath and obstruct justice... would depend... on how the economy is doing? How many companies considered "blue chip" now were virtually non-existent 20 years ago? Ten years ago? Five years ago? How many companies considered "blue chip" 20 years ago are totally unknown today?

Some people have invested for the long term and have profited from that endeavor. Perhaps a "buy and hold" mentality was viable 20 years ago. But now, as they say, "change is the only constant." In fact, today it is not just change that is constant, it is...

Blitzkrieg "Paradigm" Change!

Anyway, if you are a "buy and hold" "invest for the long term" type of investor, you and I are definitely NOT on the same page.

Extremely Short Term Investors: At the other end of the spectrum are the "day traders." These guys stay glued to every tick of the market... and... are often in and out of a stock or stock option in less than five minutes. The best-of-the-best is a guy named Martin "Buzzy" Swartz who is considered Wall Street's champion trader. There's a book out about him now called PIT BULL published by Harper Collins Publishers and you can learn about it by calling 1-800-331-3761. It's locator ID is ISBN 0-88730-876-7. He's very successful (at investing) and he's got more mathematical formulas than Einstein. Near the end of the book he summarizes an average day in his life. Here's my extremely hyphenated version of his typical schedule:

6:45 a.m.	Alarm goes off. He gets out of bed.
6:45-7:20 a.m.	Showers and shaves. Used to have a little pager that gave him market quotes 24-hours a day which he would put next to the mirror so he could watch the prices while he was shaving. His shrink convinced him this was a bad idea.
7:20-7:30 a.m.	Cleans out his plumbing. His grandfather taught him nobody is ready to start the day until they have cleaned out their plumbing twice. "Try taking a crap in an outhouse in the dead of winter and you'll always appreciate indoor plumbing. I do, twice a day." (That's a little more than I felt I needed to know. But hey, it's his book, isn't it?)
7:30-7:40 a.m.	Breakfast. Bowl of Kellogg's Oat Bran, a glass of Blood's fresh-squeezed orange juice, and two pieces of Pepperidge Farm whole wheat toast. Says he eats to loosen up, not to fill up. Reads the "Sports" section of the New York Times while breakfasting.
7:40-8:00 a.m.	At his desk collating all the faxes he's received while sleeping. Gets 30 page account from Bear Stearns, his clearing firm, listing the P&L of all his trades from the previous day. Also, gets sheets from his different commodity brokers. Makes sure everything is just right so he can begin each new day with a fresh start.
8:00-8:10 a.m.	Quote: "This is when I fly through the Wall Street Journal.
8:10-8:15 a.m.	Cleans out his plumbing again. According to Grampa, he's now ready to start his day.
8:15-8:20 a.m.	Calls his bond brokers and gets support and resistance levels for bonds for the day. Does plethora of mathematical calculations.
8:20-8:30 a.m.	Trades some bonds because it's a good way to loosen up. Says most important news on bonds seems to come from government at 8:30 on Friday mornings. Resents this because if those announcements were made earlier in the week, he and his fellow senior citizens would still be semi-fresh. (Maybe it would help if he would clean out his plumbing a third time on Friday mornings?)
8:30-8:45 a.m.	Might trade more bonds. Might not. Never trades when there's this thing the futures exchanges calls a "fast market" which is signaled by an "F" popping up on the screen of one of his machines.
8:45-9:27 a.m.	Tons of faxes start to roll in. Matches this info with opinions he's written the night before and taped to his quote machine.
9:28 a.m.	Reviews his checklist which is laminated and taped to the right hand corner of his desk. One item: "Is the MTO (Magic T Oscillator) in positive or negative mode?"
9:29 a.m.	On the phone to the S&P pit. Gets violent if this sacred time is violated.
9:30 am-12:30 p.m	Stock market opens. Trades, keeps track of trades and looks for patterns. "Pattern recognition," he says, "is my karma."
12:30-1:00 p.m.	Orders a number four to go from Seaside Superette. Posts charts at his desk while eating his number four.
1:00-4:00 p.m.	More trading, keeping track of trading and looking for patterns.
4:00-4:15 p.m.	Hey, now this is interesting! He says, "There's a fifteen-minute flurry when the stock market's closed, but the S&Ps are still trading. This is when you can really get clobbered. The premium level will rise or fall based on the orders for the close and the psychological setup for the next day's trading."
4:15-6:00 p.m.	Chills a bit. Works on his P&Ls and goes for a workout or a run.
6:00-6:30 p.m.	Dinner.
6:30-7:00 p.m.	Works on his customized charts of about seventy stocks.
7:00-8:30 p.m.	Collects and reviews data, listens to hot lines, works on his moving averages, etc.
8:30-10:30 p.m.	Prepares for tomorrow. Ponders strategies, plots inflection points, tries to spot trends, puts info on five-by-eight cards.
10:30 p.m.	Lights out. Pillow talk. And I quote:
Audrey:	"Buzzy, how'd you do today?"
Him:	"Okay, but I should have done better."
Audrey:	"All traders are the same. You want to buy at the low, sell at the high, do it three times as large, and quit at the top."
Him:	"Yeah, absolutely."

Yes indeedy, happily, for him, the fight never stops. He says markets move around the globe like the sun. Main ones in the U.S. are open from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., but there are after-hours markets for bonds, stocks, futures and more. The S&Ps which are his bread and butter, trade forever. The S&P pit on the Merc closes at 4:15 p.m., but then it reopens on a computer system called GLOBEX at 4:45 p.m. (Hey, that 30 minutes of down time might be a great opportunity to clean out his plumbing for one more time each day. Imagine how happy that would make his dear, departed Grandad!) In any case, GLOBEX trades all through the night until 9:15 the next morning and then the Merc pit opens up at 9:30. That means there are only forty-five minutes a day when you can't trade the S&P futures. Plus, to help produce more volume, GLOBEX now opens at 6:30 on Sunday night!

Hmn? Seems to me this man is missing something. He makes lots of money but something seems wrong. I'm trying to focus on it. It's right there at the edge of my consciousness. If only I could grab hold of it. Oh wait! I've got it! Here's that teensy little flaw which seems to have eluded him:

He Doesn't Have A Life!

Should you read his book? Yeah, probably if you are fanatically interested in the stock market. He's got some excellent insight and strategies. However, compared to what I'm about to share with you, it amounts to manufacturing a watch several times a day just so you'll know what time it is.

Those are the two extremes: The long-term investor and the day-traders. Then, there's the vast middle area of investors who trade a few times a month, based on the advice of their brokers (none of whom understand the stock market), advice they get from magazines, newsletters, newspapers, friends, relatives and so on. Financially speaking, this is sort of like "dabbling" in brain surgery as a part-time hobby.

None of these mindsets work for me. What I want is to invest in only those stocks which offer me a legitimate chance of going up 50% or more in one day... and... I want to do it in such a way that I myself, can legally do something which will make it likely to happen. Do you think it would be difficult to figure out how to do this?

Actually, it was a piece of cake.

Here's a true story which'll help you understand the first part of it: My second wife Nancy and I once spent weeks analyzing all the data for five years' worth of races at the Ascot Racetrack in Northeastern Ohio. (I think it's gone now.) We did a "mathematical regression analysis." In other words, we worked backwards to find out what factors were most influential in determining whether a horse was likely to be a winner in any particular race. Then, we had to determine which factors indicated whether we should or should not place a bet on any certain horse.

The results were surprising. You know what the first thing you should handicap is, if you want to make a living betting on horse races? Aw, you'd never figure it out for yourself so I'll just go ahead and tell you:

The First Thing You Want
To Handicap Is The "Crowd"
That Attends The Different Racetracks!

What you want is, to place your bets at a track with the highest percentage of people who are illiterate about horse racing. How do you find this out? Easy. You just study the Racing Form and find out which tracks have the lowest percentage of favorites who win races.

Think about it: If you had to make your living playing poker, what is the best advantage you could have? Better cards than the other players? That's impossible. In the long run, all card players will receive exactly the same percentage of good hands, bad hands and mediocre hands. No, you don't necessarily want the best cards. What you really should want (at least it's what I would want) is all the other players to be...

Dumb, Stupid
Rich Guys!

The next thing you want to do if you are going to play the ponies for a living... is... eliminate those horses almost certain not to win. Here's a major secret on how to do that: Except in high-stakes races, eliminate all horses who haven't ran a race in 21-days. Why? Because the owner isn't running the horse to win. To do so would be risking injury to the horse. What the owner is really doing is running the horse to limber him up so the horse will be able to run full-out in an attempt to win the next race. Then, you factor in the "speed rating" and... HOLD IT! The purpose of this newsletter is not to teach you how to win at the races; it's just to illustrate a point. Namely: By spending weeks (they didn't have electronic calculators back then) Nancy and I were able to figure out what really counted if you wanted to make money at the races... and...

We Never Had A Losing
Day At The Track In Ten Years!

But truly, it's a dreary way to make money. If you're really playing to win, it's tedious drudgery and takes all the fun out of it. Nowadays, if I ever do go to the track, I simply bet on the horse which most resembles my Aunt Silvie. Don't make any money but at least it's fun.

Anyhow, let's get gazockaling on beating the stock market. Now, here's the first rule I made for myself: BUY ONLY STOCKS LISTED ON ONE OF THE THREE MAJOR STOCK EXCHANGES.

The reason for that rule? Simple: You see, I realize I'm never going to make any money by buying stocks. I'm only going to make money when I sell my stocks. And, when I'm ready to sell, I want to make damn sure whomever wants to buy can easily find quotes and other details of the stocks I want to sell. In other words, I have no interest (at least, currently) in messing around with any stocks... unless... they are listed in the Wall Street Journal.

Believe it or not, that rule alone eliminates hundreds of thousands of stocks. Here in America, aside from the three major exchanges, you can buy OTC (Over-The-Counter) stocks, "pink sheet" stocks (ask your broker if you're interested) and stocks from all sorts of other sources. You can also buy stocks listed on the Toronto Exchange and all the European and Asian Exchanges.

Let's leave all that up to Buzzy. For the time being at least, let's you and me keep it simple and easy. That OK with you?

There are three major stock exchanges here in the U.S. The best known, of course, is the NYSE or New York Stock Exchange. There are approximately 3,500 stocks actively traded on this exchange.

Then, there's the NASDAQ Exchange on which approximately 5,600 are actively traded.

Finally, there's the AMEX or American Stock Exchange which has approximately 760 actively traded issues.

In Section C ("Money And Investing") of the Wall Street Journal, there is a summary of what the stock market did on the previous day of trading. It's called "Stock Market Data Bank." This tells you what happened yesterday on the Dow Jones Averages, Standard & Poor's Indexes, the Russell 1000, the Russell 2000, the Russell 3000, the Value-Line Index and something called the Wilshire 5000. It tells what were the most active issues, how many issues advanced, how many declined and how many stayed the same. It reveals the "Volume Percentage Leaders", "Volume Percentage Losers" and it gives a breakdown of trading in NYSE stocks on a 1/2-hourly basis from 9:30 a.m. (East Coast Time) when the market opens until 4:00 p.m. (East Coast Time) when it closes. This is all valuable info... so...

Let's Ignore It!

However, one part of this "Stock Market Data Bank" reveals what stocks had the highest percentage increase in price ("Price Percentage Gainers") and what stocks had the greatest decrease in price which is aptly titled "Losers."

All I was interested in when I started my research was the column which gave out the info on the "Price Percentage Gainers." Not only that, out of all the gainers, I was only interested in those stocks which had gained 50%... or more... the previous day. I wanted to know what made this small, elite group of stocks different from all the thousands of other stocks traded... which did not... make that kind of spectacular gain.

Here's what my preliminary research seems to indicate. Of all stocks which gained 50% or more in one day of trading...

Less Than 2%
Were Stocks Listed On
The AMEX Exchange

Guess how I eliminated my first sizable group of horses? (Oops, I mean stocks.) Simple. I decided to ignore the AMEX. Mushing on, I discovered...

Only 9% Of The
Top Gainers Came From
The NYSE

I decided to ignore the NYSE also... because... the plain fact of the matter is...

89% Of All Those
Big Gainers Came From
The NASDAQ

Now, let's talk about price. Of all stocks that gained 50% or more in price in one day, NONE of those stocks were "penny stocks" which had a price of less than $1.00. And yes, Virginia, there are stocks which sell for less than one buck on all three exchanges... even the NYSE.

Here's the rest of the breakdown:

Stocks priced at $1.00 to $1.99 represented 9.8% of the big gainers.

Stocks priced at $2.00 to $2.99 represented 9.4% of the big gainers.

Stocks priced from $3.00 to $3.99 made up 3.7% of the big gainers.

Stocks priced from $4.00 to $4.99 made up 2.1% of the big gainers.

Stocks priced from $5.00 to $5.99 made up 3.2% (a little statistical anomaly there) of the big gainers. Finally...

All Stocks Priced
$6.00 Or More Represented
Only 4% Of The
Big Gainers

So, Buckwheat, here's what I've decided so far: I'm only going to bet on stocks listed on the NASDAQ priced from $1.00 to $2.99... because... those stocks represent 19.2% of all the big gainers... and... these two selection criteria have enabled me to eliminate having to examine 98.5% of all stocks listed on all three of the major exchanges.

But, my friend, we ain't done yet. Not by a long shot. Just because a stock is priced between $1.00 and $2.99 and listed on the NASDAQ doesn't mean it makes the cut. Nope, all we've identified here is the "preliminary pool" of stocks we are even willing to look at. There are numerous other hurdles even these stocks have to overcome before they qualify as a "pick."

The first of the next hurdles is volume. If a stock has a very thin daily volume, just the fact you invest in that stock will make it skyrocket in price.

Conversely, if the daily volume is too high, way too much of a mountain of money has to be moved to effectuate a 50% or more jump in price. Don't make the mistake of thinking all low-priced stocks represent shares of tiny, small companies. That's not true at all. On Wall Street, a company's size is determined by its capitalization. If you take 100% of all of the shares of stock in a given company, and then multiply the number of those shares by the price of each of those shares, the number you come up with will be the "capitalization"... or... the stock market's opinion of the financial worth of that company. For example: If a company's shares are currently selling for $2.50 each and, the company has a total issue of 20,000,000 shares, that company has a total capitalization of FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS!

Hey, that doesn't sound like such a small company, does it?

WRONG! At least, according to the stock market. As far as Wall Street is concerned, a company worth $50,000,000 or less is..

A "Micro" Cap

Moving up from 50 million to 200 million, we have a group of companies, each of which is considered...

A "Small" Cap

Ain't that something? A company worth as much as 200 million fungolas is still only "small potatoes" as far as Wall Street is concerned.

Moving right on up the ladder, we have those companies worth somewhere between 200 million and 1.5 BILLION! Think that puts it at the top of the pile? Not a chance. If a company is only worth a measly 1.5 billion ($1,500,000,000.00!) it is still only considered...

A "Mid" Cap

You wanna run with the big dogs? Want to be considered a serious company? Well, as long as your company is worth more than 1.5 billion, you are then considered...

A "Large" Cap

Get this: Some of these companies are so damn big, the daily trading volume of their shares is 2-1/2 billion dollars or more!

Also remember: Not all of a company's stock is available for purchase on the stock market. Let's say a company is made up of a total of 10,000,000 shares... but... the people who run the company believe in it very strongly... and... they want to make sure they maintain control. There might be only 3,000,000 of those shares available for "outsiders" to buy from one of the stock exchanges. Those 3,000,000 shares, by the way, are called "the float." In other words, "the float" is the number of shares available for public purchase.

Small companies, of course, have the greatest potential for share price appreciation. Recently, Pfitzer, a massive company, made front-page news all over the world because it has just secured FDA approval to market a potency pill taken orally just like an aspirin and, in just 30 minutes, it makes it possible for pathetic guys like me to once again have a "woody."

By the way, since I haven't been able to depend on getting an erection for so many decades now, you know what I started doing about 10 years ago? I started carrying a small polaroid camera with me at all times... and... if I get even a momentary erection, I take an instant photo of it and write the date on the back of the photo. That way, just in case it's the last one I ever get, I'll have a record of it.

Plus, those photos save me a lot of embarrassment. Let's say I'm on a date (blue moons are more frequent) and things start getting hot and heavy. But, my little soldier won't stand up and salute and the woman I'm with starts to make fun of me and saying cruel things like, "Hah! You're supposed to be such a stud and you can't even get it up!"

It used to be dreadfully embarrassing for me. But, not anymore. Nope, now all I have to do is whip out my dated polaroid and show it to my date, smile smugly and say, "Oh yeah? Well, guess what? I used to be able to get it up and here's PROOF!"

Tell you what guys. That one sure takes the starch out of those smug, cold-hearted "only-after-one-thing" mean-spirited floozies! (By the way, my doctor says there is still hope for me if any of my readers cared enough about me to send a beautiful, hot, sexy, caring woman down here to help me with this problem. I told him it would never happen. I explained all I do is write newsletters like this one which help my subscribers get rich and none of them really care about me.)

I'll tell ya, it's a cold world out there.

But anyway, when the news of Viagra (the potency pill) hit the media, the stock of Pfitzer jumped up only about 10%. Why? Simply because Pfitzer's stock was already selling in the $90 to $100 range per share and the company is so strongly capitalized, even the best of news can only create a relatively small (by my standards) increase in the stock price.

But, what if a much smaller company with stock selling at $2.50 per share had announced it had come up with Viagra and had obtained FDA approval to market that product? We can't know precisely but, it's almost certain (assuming we're talking about a solid little company) the price of the stock would have skyrocketed from $2.50 to... at least... $7.50, $9.00... $11.00 or even more per share. It's very simple: It's much easier to double the value of a company worth a mere $50,000,000 (a "micro" cap) than it is to double the share price of a company worth $50 billion dollars. It's also much, much easier for a $2.50 stock to double in price than it is for a stock that's already selling for 90 fungolas or more.

If you are at all active in the stock market, you are already aware of the success of a small group of stock market experts (they really are) who have an informative website and write books on a how a "Motley Fool" should invest in stocks. I recommend their material since it's very informative. Here's an eight item checklist they use to select stocks worthy of further examination:

1.	Sales of 200 million... or less!
2.	Daily dollar volume of trading three million dollars... or less!
3.	Low share price between $5.00 to $20.00. They maintain stocks priced at less than $5.00 are "junk." I disagree.
4.	Net profit margin of 10% or more.
5.	Relative Strength (study Investor's Business Daily to learn what this means) of 90 or higher.
6.	Earnings or sales growth must be 25% or greater this year than it was for the same quarter last year.
7.	Insider holdings must be at least 15%.
8.	Cash-flow from operations must be a positive number.

All in all, this is a good checklist. My criteria are a bit different but, not too much. However, there's something I consider much more important than all of this put together. Namely:

I Want The Companies I
Invest In To Be "Newsworthy"!

Remember how I wrote in last month's newsletter... that... it is not some good or bad development which makes a stock price go up or down? Remember how I said, "It is the NEWS of some development, not the development itself, that affects stock prices?" How I also said, "Therefore, the way to win when you play the stock market is simply to know (and act on) the news before anyone else!" I also said, "I know a way to know the news even before the company CEO knows it." Remember, how in your mind, you thought ol' Guru Gary had finally gone all the way around the bend and how you thought... this ridiculous claim... couldn't possibly be true?

You piss me off. Don't you know who you're dealing with here? Haven't you yet learned to appreciate the enormity of my incredible manipulative genius? Good Lord, do I have to keep reminding you how fantastic I am every single issue? (You know, last year I was pretty hot shit but I did have one shortcoming: I was conceited. Now that I've lost that, I'm perfect!)

Oh shut up, you humorless twit. I've got a very important point to make and we can't have any clots in your mind obstacling you from comprehending what I'm about to lay upon you. I've got a question for you...

What Exactly Is News?

Many people would say it is information about something which just happened recently. That's partially true. But, it's incomplete. Did you ever hear the expression, "Gosh, that's news to me"? Here's a silly (but illuminating) example: Whenever two people "fall-in-love" it produces an actual chemical effect that lasts almost precisely 90-days. That's been true for thousands of years. But, did you know that? If not, then guess what?

That Was News To You!

You know what is so great about many of those smaller, low-priced publicly-traded companies? Not only does a low-priced stock have more "growing room," many of them remain unexamined by the big institutional investors who are insurance companies, pension funds and mutual funds. They can't afford to mess with those "little" stocks. First of all, there are more mutual funds than stocks (I find that rather amazing) and often, one day's trading in a given mutual fund is more than ten times the entire value of a small or micro cap company. Many of those small companies have spectacular "news" relatively no one knows about. Like a company called Longport which has a portable skin scanner a doctor can use to detect skin cancer in seconds... before it is visible... and without a biopsy. That technology has been around for a while but, I bet...

It's "News" To You,
Ain't It?

What is tragic about most of those great little companies is, they themselves don't know how to get their great... virtually hidden... and often lifesaving and wonderful... stories out to the public. Nor can they afford to hire someone like me (if they could even find anyone) to help them.

So, guess what? Not only do the stocks I invest in have to get through my stock price, daily volume, and all the other hurdles...

They Must Also Have
A Terrific And Mostly
Untold Story!

Plus, what they are doing must be something which will dramatically help humanity if they are successful... because... if they get past all my hurdles... then... I am going to buy some of their stock... and...

I Am Going
To Tell Their Story!

Everybody wins. Me. The company. The investors. And... humanity.

Remember the ad about the portable water filter bottle I sent you last month? Well, I had a little fun at the investor's expense... but... his invention really will save millions of lives and untold amounts of human misery. It wasn't him or the invention that was bad. It was the CEO who is an unscrupulous con man and a career criminal trying to pass himself off as DuSean Berkich. His real name is Don Berkich and he is a discredited ex-minister (are all religious leaders unethical and/or delusional?) and an ex-stock broker who was thrown out of the profession.

But anyway, that company in many ways is just what I'm going to specialize in except, from now on, I'm going to do my level best to make sure the management of the company is as ethical and "cutting-edge" as the technology the company has developed.

Do you doubt my ideas are solid? OK, then do this: Pretend every dental practice in Texas is incorporated and is a publicly-traded company. But, one of those companies has hired Sir Gary of Halbert to promote their business for them. There's an ad enclosed with this newsletter. This ad has already ran and Dr. Gleghorn has already had to hire another expert to help him handle all his new business. You read that ad and then you tell me: If you were going to invest in the stock of a dental company in Texas... which company... after you read my ad... would you invest in?

And, you know what? Everything in that ad is old news to dentists... but... YOU didn't know hardly any of it, did you?

What an insane concept: Investing in a public company based on who is going to blow their horn for them (without the company even knowing) and making sure their lifesaving candles are no longer hidden under a basket.

Curious about what companies I'm putting my money into this month? They're all listed on the NASDAQ and their ticker symbols are... OH WAIT A MINUTE! I forgot: I'm not going to start sharing this info with my readers until 30 or 60 days from now.

Anyway, why should you care? After all, what the hell do I know about the stock market?

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


P.S.	

There is a classic advertising story about a guy who wrote an ad to sell his farm in Connecticut. After the ad came out and he read it, he fell in love with his farm all over again and took it off the market. Same with me. After several very serious people decided they seriously wanted to buy this newsletter... on my terms... I discovered...

I Just Can't
Bear To Sell It!

However, in about 60-days I am not going to take any more new subscribers except Lifetime Subscribers who will have to pay $2,855.00. In the meantime, if you are already a subscriber (or even an ex-subscriber), you can re-subscribe by calling my office at(305) 534-7577 and leaving your name, number and giving us a range of best times to return your call. But you must do it now. That's the only way I'll let you renew for as many years as you want for my regular subscription rate of $195 per year. But, I'm not kidding: Approximately 60-days from now, it's gonna be Lifers only!

 


P.P.S.	

I'm sitting across the table from Brian Keith Voyles as I write this. I don't know how it can be possible. Because back in 1992 his doctors told him he had only one year to live. But, as I said, in one of my letters back then, "How dare some asshole doctor tell someone something like that? Only GOD gets to make those kind of judgment calls."

Peace.
(Hey, do you know a dentist who needs a "killer" copywriter?)

 

The dental ad mentioned in this newsletter is not available on this website.

Thank You.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	 

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## I Have Approximately The Same Talent For Management That A Pig Has For Solving Geometry Problems!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zakl_talent_for_management.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

By the time you receive this letter, I, Sir Gary of Halbert, the Ravin' Maven of Marketing, shall have fled the drizzly state of California and skied out to sunny Florida.

As you know, the purpose of this letter is not to teach you how to invest your money. No. The purpose of this letter is to help you make more money. However, having acknowledged that, let me now say this: I have stumbled onto a situation in Florida that maybe, just maybe, is worth mentioning in this letter.

Even though it concerns an investment idea rather than a money-making one.

Anyhow, what happened is that, last month, when I'm in Fort Lauderdale teaching at one of those high-priced ($5,000 for 2-1/2 days) marketing boot camps, Paulette and I decide to go shopping. What we are shopping for is a little house on a canal near the Port Everglades entrance to the ocean and/also, maybe a charter boat operation we could invest in for pleasure and profit.

Well, we didn't end up buying either one. We did discover, however, that Florida real estate is breath-takingly cheap when compared to California properties. And, we also discovered that getting into the charter boat business is more of a hassle than we, personally, are willing to endure.

So, what did we buy? I can still hardly believe it. You see, we went and spent a big wad of our hard-earned money and...

We Bought A Boat Slip!

Listen: There are thousands of wealthy boat owners in Florida and more coming in every day. Likewise, there are thousands of boat slips in which those owners can dock their boats. But... there are not thousands of great boat slips.

And, what makes a great boat slip, you ask? OK, for one thing, it would have to be located in a big, modern, first-class marina that has every facility you could imagine. For another, it would need to be in a marina that is near the ocean.

Think about it. If you wanted to go fishing or diving, you wouldn't want to have to chug along in a canal for two or three hours -- just to get to the ocean -- now, would you?

In any case, what's happening now is, a few of the scarce, really first-class luxury marinas are starting to "condo-ize" their docks and boat slips. In other words, in some cases, what you can do now is buy a boat slip instead of renting it.

This has several advantages. First, you never have to worry about having a place to dock your boat. Secondly, it can be an income-producing investment because, when you are not using the slip, the marina will rent it to other boat owners and manage everything for you and you get to keep 70%+ of the money.

So, how much does it cost to buy a "condo-ized boat slip" and what should you care?

Good questions. Look, as far as I'm concerned, Bahia Mar in Fort Lauderdale is the best marina in South Florida and that's where I'll be (in slip b-216) for nearly all of January and much of 1989. Bahia Mar has about 350 boat slips and, the ones that are being condo-ized range in price from $125,000 to $340,000 and they are being snapped up...

Faster Than 1-Per Day

When you "buy" a slip (actually you're technically buying the leasehold rights) at Bahia Mar, you get a lot for your money. You get the use of all the facilities of the luxurious Bahia Mar Hotel, you get telephone, fax, computer and cable TV hook-ups. You get "room service" directly to your boat and so on.

Now, why should you care about all this? Hmn? Maybe I can make it clear by whomping a little tale on you? Once upon a time, (just three years ago), a guy decides to buy into one of these condo boat slip deals in a marina in Key Largo called the Ocean Reef Club. (By the way, I was there with Ed Mayer, the "Dean of Direct Mail," once, and, as we were relaxing on the deck of a luxury yacht, he said, "I wonder what all the poor people are doing today?")

Forgive me, I digress. So, back to the guy who buys that boat slip -- what he does is, he pays $250,000 for it!

Can you imagine that? $250,000 for a place to park a boat? Well, here's the good part: That guy recently sold his slip and...

He Got $595,000 For It!

Not too shabby, eh? Let's see, turning $250,000 into $595,000 means that, in just 36 months, he got...

A 238% Return On His Investment!

You know, somehow it seems to me that that's a better deal than most folks are getting from the stock market. And, if you want to check it out, I suggest you call a delightful young lady named Maura A. Brassil and her number is...

(305) 764-2233

And, there's another thing I want you to do and do it right now! And, what's that, you ask? I want you to...

Stop Bitching!

I know. I know. You didn't sign up for a letter to learn how to buy a boat slip, did you? No. No. No-ooo. You subscribed so I could teach you how to make money not invest it, right?

OK, OK. As a reward for your patience, howsabout I open the door for you on the biggest money-making opportunity I've ever come across? Would that make things square?

Geez, The Things I Gotta Do!

Hark unto me. Listen: During the last couple of years, I've done an enormous amount of public speaking. Not only that, I've been a featured instructor at several of those $5,000-a-pop marketing boot camps. Moreover, this newsletter is read by the vast majority of the people who really count in the field of direct marketing. And, as you know, I do a lot of "self-aggrandizing advertising." I'm currently "starring" in a commercial on Financial News Network (FNN); you can see my self-centered ads in DM News, Investors Daily, The Wall Street Journal, The L.A. Times, etc.; you can hear me on cassettes and on the radio... and on and on and on.

So what? How does any of this put a buck in your pocket?

Hold on Buckwheat, I'll get to it. I promise.

OK now, where was I? Oh yeah, I was telling you about all the stuff I do in the name of unmitigated conceit. So anyway, the latest piece of propaganda I've come up with is a report titled "16 Amazing Secrets You Can Use To Sell Anything To Anyone Without Ever Meeting Them In Person". Many of you have that report. However, for those of you who don't, you need to know it consists of 16 sections, most of which are made up of back issues of this newsletter.

Well, I don't mean to brag (?) but, this is the most well-received piece of work I've ever published. People call and write me constantly about it. Some say they've read it 10 times. Most say this report has more valid money-making ideas than anything else they've ever read. One guy even said that reading the last two sections prevented him from suicide.

Etc. Look, I'm not trying to sell you on buying this report. Most of you have already read most of this stuff anyway. What I am trying to communicate is that, foolishly or not, there now seems to be legions of people all over the U.S. who seem to think I've got something on the ball and who want to work with me.

You'll see the significance of this in a moment. But first, just to make sure we're both on the same wavelength, I want you to read section #3 of my report which I am reprinting here in its entirety.

SECTION #3

How To Get As Much Money As
You Need To "Roll Out" Your Project
And Get It Without Borrowing!

   My newsletter goes out all over the world. Many of my subscribers are extremely successful and many of them have enormous amounts of money.

   These people are in contact with me on an almost daily basis and they are always asking my opinion of different areas of their business activities. Sometimes they want my opinion on a person they may or may not decide to hire. Other times they want to know if I think their current marketing campaign could be improved. Often, they send me their ads and sales letters for critique.

   And so on.

   However, one of the most common questions I am asked is if I know about any new and tested ideas in which they can invest money.

   Now, let me tell you something: If you have a totally unproven idea that you are "hoping" will work, then, I probably can not help you. On the other hand, if you have an idea that you have tested with good results then, my friend, I may be able to direct you to one or more people who may very well be willing to totally finance your business in return for a share of your profits.

   Look, testing your ideas will cost you some money. However, when you read Section 5 of this report, you will learn how to rest an ad in a daily newspaper at the lowest possible cost. And, if you are a real hustler, you can use the info in Section 9 to mail thousands of sales letters virtually free.

   Besides that, if you decide to test your idea via "conventional" direct mail, it should only cost you $1,500.00 or so if you are willing to do most of the work (addressing, sealing, stuffing etc.) yourself. So anyway, once you do your test and you have actual numbers then, here is what you do. You write me a letter something like this:

Dear Gary:

Sometime ago I had an idea for selling a report my wife wrote on "How To Lose Weight Without Starving" and I wrote a newspaper ad offering her report for sale. I ran the ad in the Podunk Daily News which has a circulation of 53,000 and the ad cost me $1,200.00 for a 1-time insertion.

I priced the report at $12.00 plus $1.50 postage and it costs me about $3.50 to fill an order. Therefore, every order yields up $10.00 in "contribution to overhead." My ad pulled in 220 orders for a total gross of $2,970.00.

At $3.50 to fill an order it cost me $770.00 to fill all my orders. Therefore, my total costs ($770.00 to fill orders and $1,200.00 to pay for the ad) were $1,970.00 which, when subtracted from my gross of $2,970.00 left me a bottom-line profit of...

$1,000.00

Please let me know if you know anyone who would be interested in funding this project for a share of the profit.

             Sincerely,

          So & So

   O.K., as soon as I receive such a letter from you or someone else, what I do is, I immediately put the word out to my network of potential investors and usually there is some very fast action!

   Think about it and, if you ever need funding to promote your proven ideas, I welcome your call.

   By the way, my number is...

213-273-7053

Okay, you got all that?

Now, here's the thing: People are responding to my report in general and, section #3 in particular, in droves! People are coming to me with valid tested ideas and, there's no way in the world I can handle all this stuff myself.

But, it would truly be a crying shame if I let all this go to waste.

Want proof? Check this out. A guy calls me for an appointment and then comes to my office. His story: He's an insurance agent and he's written (and published) a little book titled "How To Save A Fortune On Your Auto Insurance." Then, not knowing any better, he tells me he created his own sales letter and mailed it to...

A Resident List!

And, even though such a list should not work, he told me he got a 5.8% cash-with-order response!

Do you realize what that means? It's very simple. It means that with a little savvy list selection, he should be able to mail something like maybe...

70 Million Letters At A Huge Profit!

By the way, here is an exact copy (sans name) of the letter this man sent to me.



Dear Gary,

     I recently purchased your book entitled "16 Amazing Secrets You Can Use To Sell Anything To Anyone Without Ever Meeting Them In Person" after reading your excellent advertisement in the Los Angeles Times (10/3).

     After receiving this publication in a very surprising short period of time, I eagerly read through it from the front to the back, completely. After reading section three, Roll Out, I am going to take you up on your offer, here go's...

     I have the hottest and most desired book out, period! As you can see from the enclosed literature, my exciting block-buster entitled "How To Save A Fortune On Your Auto Insurance" could be one of the best selling books of the century. This outstanding publication can be marketed nationwide and with updates every couple years this book has an unlimited life. Can you remember when insurance rates went down? They only keep getting higher and higher. Let your mind wander with the possibilities after reading the enclosed literature I've provided.

     Gary, I've taken the liberty to use the sample letter you suggested sending you for simplicity purpose which you will find attached.

     I am currently seeking potential investors to promote this proven idea on a grand scale. If this is of interest to you or someone you feel is serious and has the means I would be very interested in exploring the possibilities.

Recently I wrote and published a book entitled "How To Save A Fortune On Your Auto Insurance". I did a direct mail campaign in the West Los Angeles area of 5,000 mailing with the following results.

I priced the book at $12.95 plus $2.00 postage and handling. It cost me approx. $2.38 to fill an order. Therefore, every order yields up $12.57 in contribution to overhead. My mailing pulled 290 (5.8%) orders for a total gross of $4,335.50.

At $2.38 to fill an order it cost me $690.20 to fill all orders. Therefore, my total cost ($690.20 to fill orders and $2,150.00 to pay for the mailing) were $2,840.20 which, when subtracted from my gross of $4,335.20 left me a bottom-line profit of...

$$$$$$$$$$     $1,495.30     $$$$$$$$$$

$$$$$$$$$$

Please let me know if you know someone who would be interested.

 

 

So, what did I do when he told me all this? That's easy. I wrote him a big check and got him to sign a contract giving me the exclusive rights to his book and his direct mail promotion for same.

Another example. A guy calls me, says he's read my report 10 times and he's got to talk with me in person. He comes to my office with another (much younger) man and here's what they tell me: The younger man is the son of a NASA scientist (now deceased) who was one of the main men responsible for putting an American on the moon. Anyway, in his spare time, this scientist puttered around (heh, heh) designing a set of golf clubs that are engineered according to something called "the laws of curved motion". These clubs are then given to a teaching pro (the older of the two men sitting across from me) and he thinks they are fantastic and he gives them to several "big name" pros to test out.

The pros love the clubs! They rave about them and these guys show me article after glowing article in golf publications wherein these pros lavish praise on the clubs.

But, more importantly, the young guy showed me a $9,400 ad (he produced the actual invoice) that he ran in The Wall Street Journal for just the putter.

The result? That $9,400 ad pulled in more then $60,000!

And, the older guy then produces a golf magazine with a two page spread that cost him $25,000 (it featured the full set of clubs) that...

Pulled In $630,000!

So, I decided to do business with these guys, also. But, blinded by the light, guess what I forgot?

I Forgot That I Have Approximately The
Same Talent For Management That A Pig
Has For Solving Geometry Problems!

And yet, these good deals like the two I just described keep pouring into my office on an almost daily basis.

What to do? What to do? "Hmn," I say to myself, "just because I'm a management idiot doesn't mean my subscribers are as hopeless as me!" So, I've got some questions for you:

1.

2.



3.




4.	Do you have money to invest in projects like these?

Can you make the "go ahead" decision yourself without having to run to your lawyer, your accountant, your spouse, or your Daddy?

Do you have some management ability to go along with your money? I'm talking specifically about the expertise to run a huge TV, direct mail or space advertising campaign.

Would you be willing to share a teensy bit of your profits with the Prince of Print in return for him feeding you some of these good deals?

Hey, if you answered yes to all of the above questions, you and I need to talk personally.

I'm serious. Look, in a business with a huge percentage of slimebags, it has taken me years to establish myself as a savvy, honest guy whose word is literally his bond. And now, I want to capitalize on that hard-earned reputation...

Without Screwing Around Trying To Set
Myself Up In A Management Situation
For Which I Am Totally Unsuited!

Now, having said all that, please let me say this: If you are on the other side of the coin and, you've got a hot, tested promotion and, you want someone to run like crazy with it and pay you your fair share of the loot then... you should call me too!

I want to say something serious here with no attempt at humor. Listen, for whatever reasons, valid or invalid, when it comes to the direct response industry, my office has become "ACTION CENTRAL". You truly wouldn't believe the deals, the ideas and the opportunities that flow to my office and across my desk. And, quite simply, I can't take advantage of it all.

But, I want you to help me not let all this go to waste. You know, there are so darn few really good people out there that it's a shame they don't have a good way to connect up with each other.

Well, now they do! Since I seem to be the spider sitting fat and sassy at the center of this wondrous web, I've decided to set myself up as a matchmaker and do what I can to put all the good people in touch with each other.

So, if you've got something: Talent, money, DM management ability, a tested promotion and so on, I want you to join me and become part of what's soon going to be known as...

Gary Halbert's Genius Network!

Please let me hear from you.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

Gary C. Halbert
The "Connection"


P.S.	

I've got a hot (and valuable) free gift for the first 100 of my subscribers who call my office within the next 11 days. I won't be here to take your call but Susan and/or Lissa will and they'll send out your surprise the same day you call!


P.P.S.	Another hot deal just came in by FAX! It's a health newsletter somebody wants to sell with 40,000+ active subs and a $2,000,000 annual gross. Any takers?

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## I Didn't Have To Masturbate To Get My Heart Started This Morning!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zszd_didn%27t_masturbate.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

     I didn't have to masturbate to get my heart started this morning.

     Plus, nothing evil or toxic seems to have happened to me so far today.

     So, I should feel good but, I don't.  No specific reason. I just feel
down-in-the-dumps.  I guess I'm just like everyone else.  Sometimes, I'm 
just plain overwhelmed by life.  On other days, I find myself inexplicably
cheerful, confident and optimistic.  There doesn't seem to be much rhyme
or reason to it.  Not as much as I'd like for there to be anyway.

     Awhile back, some guy told me, "You know Gary, life is like a shit
sandwich.  Everyday you get another bite.  And the difference is , On good
days, you get more bread."

     But, you know what?  There is something I could do that almost always
cheers me up...so...I'm going to try it today.  Here I go.  What I'm
going to try to do today is...

Write A Good Newsletter!

Howzabout I give you some really simple, easy-to-execute little tips
that will make your marketing endeavors considerably more profitable?
Doesn't that sound like it has some "cheering-up-potential"?  I think it
does so, here they are:

Tip #1:  "Reading Statistics:  What You Don't Know Could Be Killing
          Your Advertising Results!"

     Did you know that a clear 90% of the people in the U.S. read at a 
grade seven (age 12) level or lower?

     Also, did you know that research shows reading from a computer screen
is around 25% slower than reading from paper?

     What should you conclude from these facts?  Give up?  Okay, it's this

You Must Write In Plain English...
Your Writing Must Be Simple... And...
It Must Be Clear!

     That means short and simple words, sentences and paragraphs in your 
copy.  Are there any hard and fast rules?  Not really.  I'll give you some
guidelines, though.

     As far as words, sentences and paragraphs go...don't use a ten-dollar
word when a simple one will work just as well.  Keep your sentences
relatively short... say, 14-17 or less words.  And if you have longer
ones, break them up with ellipsis... or dashes-.

     As a general rule, paragraphs should not exceed 6 lines.  However, I
usually stay around 2 to 4.  And it's a good idea to mix it up... have 
some one sentence paragraphs...even one or two word paragraphs...

     Like this.

     Actually, one of the best ways to learn how to write clearly is...
study proven sales letters.  Find the ones you know are winners... that
are easiest to read and model their layout/style.  If you're not already
collecing good sales letters, get started now.  Get on the mailing lists
of Agora Publishing, Phillips Publishing and Rodale Books.  And, if you're
really serious, buy at least one or two products from each of them.
You'll get more good to great sales letters, magalogs, bookalogs, etc.,
than you can shake a stick at... delivered right to your front door.

     Here's another tip...

     If you use Microsoft Word, you can test the readability of your ads
and sales letters.  Here's what you do: Click on the Tools button at the
top of the screen.  A menu will come up.  In that menu click on Options.
Then you'll see a Spelling & Grammar button... click that.  Then there's a
check box at the bottom that says, "Show readability statistics"... click
that.  Then when you spell check your document, you'll get a box that
looks sort of like this...

 

Readability Statistics:

Counts___________
Words: 1037
Characters: 4909
Paragraphs: 38
Sentences: 96 

Averages:_________
Sentences per Paragraph: 3.0
Words per Sentence: 10.3
Characters per Word: 4.3

Readability_______
Passive Sentences: 2%
Flesch Reading Ease: 74.6
Flesch-Kincaid Grade Level: 5.4

 

    
 Those are the readability statistics for this newsletter.  Not bad.  In
general, you should aim for a grade level of 6 or lower.  And a reading
ease of 70 or higher.

     Here's yet another tip...

Envision Your Customer As A Dolt!

     My friend and colleague, Jeff Paul says that when he sits down to
write a sales letter or ad, he thinks of his average customer as being
just like Homer Simpson.  (You know, the lovable oaf from the famous TV
show The Simpsons.)  But not in a derogatory way.  In this way: For every
word, sentence and paragraph Jeff writes... he asks the question: Would
Homer understand this?  (Meaning: If Homer can understand it... my
customer will easily be able to.)

     Great advice.  By the way, I love it when Homer says...

"Doh!"

     Anyway, don't worry about turning-off the brainiacs with your simple
writing style.  They're apparently only 10% of the crowd.  And, if it's 
something they want to hear, they'll appreciate simple clarity... plus...
the rest of your audience will still be able to understand it.

     And know this: People are busy and they are bombarded with 1000's of 
advertising messages every day.  If your sales message isn't bold, 
dramatic... and ... SIMPLE... they'll just ignore it!  You can't make them
work to understand your message.

     One last thing:  Since people read 25% slower from a computer monitor
than they do from paper... you'd better be extra clear when writing sales
materials online.

Tip #2:  "Two Quick Formatting Tips That'll Boost Response To
          All Your Ads And Sales Letters!"

     Here's a couple of quick tips that'll boost response to all your ads
and sales letters.  What's great about these tips... is they only take a
few minutes per promo to implement:

          1. Don't end a page in your sales letters on a period...
             or... a column of copy in an ad on a period.

          2. Put a footer (in the bottom right hand corner) on all
             your sales letters that says something like, "go to next
             page".  If you run multi-page newspaper or magazine
             ads... do the same.

     Here's why: When you end a page (or a column of copy) on a period, you
give the reader a chance to stop reading.  Bad! Very bad!  Instead, you
want to think of your promo as a greased slide, that, once they get on,
there's no way to stop until the very end... where they then whip out 
their wallet and buy.

     Let me take this a step further.

     If, for example, a person is reading your sales letter (or ad) and is
near the end of a page... and the phone rings... if they can finish that
page because you ended it on a period... they are then much more likely
to do that and answer the phone.  Doesn't have to be the phone.  Any
distraction.  And once they are distracted from your letter, that may be
your one chance to get an order... gone forever!  Remember this:

Delay Is The Death Of A Sale!

     Could you imagine a salesperson, in the middle of their pitch saying,
"Excuse me, I have to go to the bathroom."  They'd never make any sales...
or very few.  Just remember:  Once you've hooked 'em, don't ever, ever give
them any opportunity to get away!

     Also, a footer that says, "go to next page" or "go to page 2" helps to 
keep them moving down the greased slide, as well.

     I can't tell you how many sales letters cross my desk without these 
simple response boosters.  And I'm not talking from amateurs either.
Advertising and Marketing Gurus (that I won't name here) make this 
mistake... OFTEN!  There's no reason to... other than laziness or
sloppiness.  Don't make this mistake yourself.  It'll cost you money!

     Another thing you can do, is make your pages end on kind of a cliff-
hanger.  Like right before you are getting ready to reveal a secret... or
something important.

     On the following page is a perfect example:

Not only will I reveal how to double your income in 5 days or less, I'm also going to

                                                                                                      (Go to page 2...)

      Or something like that.  Notice I put the footer in parenthesis and bold italics... use the bolding to draw attention... the italics are optional.

     Here are a few other sample phrases you might use:

(go to the next page)

(next page please)

(Please go to the next page and continue reading...)

(turn over)

(over...)

     Study ads and find others that you like.  I personally keep it simple,
but specific (see example in the box above).

     This is not rocket science... but... it sure can make a big difference
in response.  How big?  I'm not exactly sure.  But it really doesn't matter.
It does make a difference... and ... it's simple to use.  So why not do it?

Tip #3:  "A Quickie Formatting Tip That'll Instantly Boost Response
          To All Your Ads And Sales Letters!"

     This tip is simple and easy to apply.  And it's this:  If you want to improve response to every ad and sales letter you write...

Put Your Headline In Quotes!

     How well does this work? Well, to tell the truth, I'm not exactly sure.
Here are a couple of statistics I've read.  David Ogilvy in his book
Ogilvy on Advertising says, "When you put a headline in quotes, recall
goes up 38%."  Another stat I read says, "...headlines in quotes receive
28% more attention."

     I'm not sure what the difference is between "recall" and "attention"...
but I don't really care.  Quotes around your headline compel more people
to read your ad or sales letter... so... I use them.  You should too!

     Another thing I've taken to, is if I have subheads under my main headline... I put them in quotes too.  BUT... I don't close my quotes
until the last subhead.  Again, on the next page is an example:

 

 

 

                “Send no money… it’s free and easy to get started…
                but only for a limited time…

 

“Who Else Wants To Be Spoonfed
The Hottest Moneymaking Secrets
Known To Man?


“Each and every month, Key West entrepreneur and self-made
millionaire, Nancy Jones does an in-depth interview and
uncovers the innermost secrets of a “super high-achiever” in
the field of business of personal success… and… delivers it on
audiotape to the doorsteps of her exclusive mastermind
members.  Now, at last, you can become a member too and get
a multi-million dollar business and success education in the
comfort and leisure of your own home (or car).

“It’ll cost you nothing to get started.  Plus, if you’re not
satisfied… for any reason or no reason at all… you’ll pay
nothing ever - guaranteed!  (Please read this entire message
right away because, this offer is strictly limited and expires
for good on Wednesday, April 4, 2001!)”

 

     Why do I do this?  Again, to tell the truth, I'm not exactly sure if it
improves response or not (or, if so, by how much)... but... I noticed it
being done a lot in magalogs.  Magalogs I know that are (or were)
controls. I don't have any hard evidence to back this up... but... I 
feel, if you close the quotes after every subhead or the headline... it
kind of puts up a reading roadblock.  By leaving them open, then putting a
quote in front of the next subhead... I believe you draw the reader down
and through your copy.

     When I just have a headline with no subheads, I close the quotes after
the headline.

     The leaving the quotes open thing is just my opinion... albeit... a
somewhat informed opinion.

     (By the way:  A control is the winning or strongest ad or mail piece a
company runs.  One that they test other ads or mail pieces against and it
pulls in more sales.  A magalog is a multi-page thing you get in the mail
that looks like an informative magazine... but... is really a sales
piece.  They give some information... but leave the info incomplete enough
to entice you to order whatever product or service is being offered.)

Tip #4:  "How To Use Free Bonuses To Increase The Perceived Value Of
          Your Offers And Increase Sales!"

     This lesson is a basic, but useful one.

     Remember the old Ginsu knives infomercials?  Remember how they'd pile on the free bonuses to get you to order?  If not, it went something like
this:

     "But wait, that's not all!  If you order in the next 30 minutes... I'll
not only send you the entire 36-piece set of Ginsu knives, I'll include a 
second set absolutely free.  And, you still get the free fisherman's 
friend fillet knife, the free indestructible cutting board... and...
etc., etc., etc."

     Anyway, the reason they did that is... it works!  That is, it increases
sales... sometimes massively.  And all you've got to do to see this 
technique used at its perfection, is tune in to late night television. 
Just stay up late and watch a few cheesy infomercials.

     They've really got it down to a science.  They have to.  It costs so
much money to make and test an infomercial ($100,000 or more easily)
there's no room for error.  If you see one of these 30-minute spots run
over and over... pay attention... you're watching a winner!

     Now, how do you apply it to your business?  Well, since I don't know what business you're in... I'll cover a few different examples.

       If you sell information, you can add more information.  Free
       book.  Free tapes.  Free videos.  Free teleseminars.  Etc.

       If you are in a service business, say dry cleaning, you could
       offer extra free cleaning.  One shirt free for every two or 
       something.

       A chiropractor... free exercise ball to strengthen their back
       with first paid appointment.

       A dentist... free teeth cleaning with first paid appointment.

       Computer sales... free deluxe office chair when someone buys a
       computer.

       Industrial sales... free service contract for one year after
       purchase of a widget.

     Whatever business or industry you're in, you can use free bonuses to 
increase sales.  Just make sure the bonuses have a high perceived value...
and... are easy (and cost-effective) to fulfill on (see caveat below).

     Use your imagination and see how many ways you can apply this to your 
situation.  It's easy.

     Caveat: Be wary of tail. What's "tail"? This: Say, if you are selling a book, and you offer a 30 minute free consultation to people if they buy your book... that consultation is tail.  You have now sold your time. Time you are going to have to fulfill on later down the road.  Better: Offer another similar or complimentary free report with purchase of the book.  You can easily fulfill on that ... and then... you are free and clear.  And the client still gets increased value...thus...more sales for you.

     Hey, that was some pretty helpful stuff, wasn't it? And, you know what?
In reality, I didn't write ANY of those tips. They were all written by
Scott ("Mongo") Haines.  Scott is the best student I've ever had.  And now,
he publishes his own newsletter.  You should get it.  It's free.  It's 
informative.  It will help you make more money. Scott sends it (100% free)
to anyone who gives him their e-mail address. Your e-mail address is safe
with Scott.  It will only be used to send you his newsletter and an
occasional bit of "Hot News". He will not rent, trade, sell or use your
e-mail address in any other way. And, for what it's worth, I Sir Gary of
Halbert, 100% recommend and endorse you being a subscriber to his
newsletter.  You can find out all about it by going to...
www.KillerCopySecrets.com.

     That's it for this month. by turning you on to Scott's newsletter, I
feel I've done you a great favor... and... having completed this month's 
newsletter has put me in a brighter mood.

     Maybe life is worth living after all.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
 Plagiarist Personified

 P.S. I desire 100% of the credit for all of Scott's success. And for
      those students of mine who didn't "get it", I only have this to say
      about those people...

It Was All Their Fault!

      Anyway, that's the way I look at things.

            Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Improve Your Response Without Changing A Word Of Your Copy!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/aakh_improve_response.htm

From:
WAY West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I am now about to talk to you on the subject of direct mail like nobody has ever talked to you before.

Listen: Last month I promised you that this month I was going to reveal unto you 20-ways to increase the response of your direct mail without changing a word of your copy.

I am now about to keep that promise.

First of all, my ideas on increasing your direct mail response without changing the verbiage of your sales efforts are based on four main concepts.

#1	Nobody will respond to your mail unless they read your mail.
#2	Nobody will read your mail unless they open your mail.
#3	Nobody will open your mail unless the post office delivers your mail.
#4	The post office will not deliver your mail unless your mail is delivered to the post office.

What's that? You say all this is obvious? You say your mail is already being delivered to the post office and being delivered by the post office and being opened and read by all your prospects? You say you've got all this elementary stuff covered?

Surely you jest.

Let me tell you what in reality is happening to a lot of your mail. First, all the mail you are paying to have printed and assembled is not always being delivered to the post office by your lettershop. Why? The answer is simple. You see, it is much more profitable for your lettershop to assemble only 90% of your mail than it is to assemble 100% of your mail.

Of course, you don't believe this is happening, do you? I mean, after all, your lettershop gets a receipt from the post office for the number of pieces of mail it delivers to the loading dock, doesn't it? And that receipt is given to you, isn't it?

And receipts don't lie, do they? Especially ones that are signed by an employee of the almighty U.S. Federal Government, right?

Be serious. Try and picture this scene in your mind. I want you to imagine a guy named Jose who works on the loading dock of a big city Post Office. I want you to know a little about this guy. I want you to know that he has six kids and a nagging wife, a seven-year-old car that needs a valve job, a drawer full of overdue bills, worries about how he's going to swing Christmas and also, the hots for a little co-worker named "Roundheels" Rhonda.

Now ol' Rhonda isn't too particular about her gentleman friends as long as they come equipped with a well-stocked personal pharmacy.

So anyway, our guy Jose has all this on his mind when the truck from Larcenous Lettershop drives up and out pops the owner, Mr. Ferdinand Letscrewem. Ferdy then walks up to Jose (who he's known for years) and starts up a conversation:

Ferdy:	"How's it goin, Jose? Getting any action lately?"
Jose:	"Not much man. Just the ol' lady. I'd sure like to get next to Roundheels again but you know Rhonda... no blow, no show."
Ferdy:	"Oh yeah. Say that reminds me. I got a little something for you. It's Peruvian flake, man. Root canal quality!"
Jose:	"Hey man, you're O.K.! You just saved my cojones from early retirement!"
Ferdy:	"Glad to do it, man. Hey listen, I gotta get a receipt for this mail. I don't know how it's gonna weigh out but it's supposed to be about 100,000 pieces and that's what I need a receipt for, you dig?"
Jose:	"No worries, good buddy. Just have your men put the stuff on the cart over there and I'll get the paperwork for you right away."

And so it goes. What happens is ol' Mr. Letscrewem delivers 90,000 pieces of mail to the post office and gets a receipt which he gives to you for 100,000 pieces. And why are the principals in this dreary little drama unafraid of repercussions? Quite simple: You see, both of these guys know that since your mail is "junk mail" nobody will be the wiser if all of it is not delivered.

Let's face it, how will you ever know?

So anyway, let us continue our story. You now have 90,000 pieces of mail sitting on a post office dock that eventually (after a long, long time) gets sorted and delivered to the loading docks of the other post offices, from which it is supposed to be delivered to all your prospects. And then, after another long, long while, some lazy mental midget finally ends up with your mail in his mail sack and he starts going about his daily rounds. After an hour or so he gets tired. The mail sack is getting heavy. And besides, he's getting sick of looking at all that junk mail. Not only that, his customers hate to receive it. He hears it everyday: "Hey man, why don't you bring me some good news? How about a big lottery check or something instead of all this junk?"

And so, every once in a while, guess what our mental midget decides to do? You're right, every once in a while he decides to throw your mail away!

Much, Much, Much,
Much More Often
Than You Would Ever Believe!

And why not? It's junk, isn't it? Nobody's going to miss it, are they? Throwing this stuff away is doing everybody a big favor, right?

And so, about 17% (minimum) of all your mail that is correctly addressed never gets delivered simply because it gets thrown away. And, of course, since you are mailing bulk, your mail also never gets forwarded to those folks who have moved which on any given list at any given time is about 7% of the total.

Let's see now. So far, 10% didn't get delivered to the post office, 24% didn't get delivered by the post office and now (finally) we've got approximately 66,000 pieces of mail (out of the 100,000 that we've paid for) that has actually been delivered.

So what happens next? I'm glad you asked. What happens next is that at least of your 66,000 pieces of mail that did manage to get delivered gets immediately thrown away.

Here is something I want to burn into your mind. I want you to remember it and remember it well. I also want you to remember that it was me, Sir Gary of Halbert, who first told you that...

Most Of The People
In America Sort
Through Their Mail
While Standing Over
A Waste Basket!

But, of course, as one of my subscribers, you already knew that, didn't you? Whatever. O.K. now, we've got 33,000 letters (out of 100,000) that have actually been delivered to the post office, delivered by the post office and opened by our prospects.

Hooray. Hooray.

But wait. We started cheering too soon.

Why? Because now, perhaps another 20% of our remaining mail gets thrown away as soon as it was opened. Darn it anyway. Here we get 33,000 people to open our mail and 6,000 or 7,000 of those folks said "Oh yuck!" when they saw that bewildering collection of brochures, order cards, yes-no stamps and so forth.

But hey, we have gotten about 26,000 folks to at least read our letters. And that's not bad, right?

Actually, it's not. What the hell, if every one of those 26,000 people order, we'll be figuring on getting a 26% response and gosh, that's not bad at all.

But, of course, all 26,000 of those who do read our mail do not order. Some of them who read our letters don't order because they don't believe what they are reading. But don't worry, we can fix that. At least, on a percentage basis, we can fix a lot of it!

And now, we are left with those folks who don't order because they don't want what we're selling and I'll accept that.

Or because they don't want to pay our price and I'll accept that.

Or because they are short of cash and I'll accept that.

But I won't accept, and neither should you, not getting orders because my letters were not delivered, opened or read.

So let's stop sniveling and start curing these problems. Are you ready? Good. Here then, after another atrociously long preamble, are 20-ways to improve your response without changing a word of your copy.

#1	Deliver your mail to the post office yourself.

Want to try a really instructive split-run test? Do this: If you mail say, 100,000 pieces per month, send half of your work to Lettershop A and the other half to Lettershop B. Tell Lettershop A to proceed as usual and deliver your mail to the post office and make sure they obtain and give to you a mailing receipt. Then, have Lettershop B deliver the mail to you and then you deliver the mail to another post office and you get the receipt. Continue doing this every month for a year. Guess what will happen? Lo and behold, you are going to discover that, over the course of a year, Lettershop B dramatically outpulls Lettershop A.

Isn't that curious? Let's press on.

#2	Start using live stamps on your envelopes instead of using a postage meter or a printed indicia.
#3	Start using direct impression addressing (heat transfer, AD MARK, laser, etc.) instead of labels.
#4	Remove your company name from your corner card.
#5	Get rid of all teaser copy on your envelope.
#6	Print the word "RUSH" in red on your envelopes.

Let's pause for the cause here a moment. All of those last five suggestions are designed to make your mail look more like first class mail and, as we all know, first class mail (or mail that looks like first class) is more likely to get first class treatment.

From your lettershop.

From your post office.

From your customer.

It's all a matter of respect. Did you know that the post office is about to bar the use of those fake Federal Express type envelopes because those envelopes have been fooling postal employees? True. Those envelopes (even when mailed bulk rate) get a very prompt delivery and sometimes the postman even asks his customers to sign for them. And, did you know that first class mail (or mail that looks like first class) even gets more respect (and less trashing) from your lettershop?

Enough about envelopes. Let's talk about your sales letter.

#7	Re-type it and use wider margins and more subheads. Also, make certain things stand out by showcasing them in bold, like I'm doing in this letter.

Do all this to provide "eye relief." To make your sales message more inviting and less formidable when your prospect first sees your letter.

#8	Throw away your brochure or hide it in a plain white envelope so your prospect doesn't see it as soon as he opens your envelope. Ditto with your order coupons.

You already know why; it's to avoid the "Oh Yuck!" reaction.

#9	Change your 10-day or 30-day or 60-day guarantee to a full 1-year guarantee.

Did you know that the longer the customer has to request a refund the less likely he is to do so? Yea, verily, it is true. You see, if you offer a 10-day guarantee your customers will be very conscious of it and the refund deadline will be in the forefront of their beady little minds.

No good. Give 'em time to forget about getting a refund. Give 'em a year.

By the way, the longer the guarantee period, the higher your response rate will be too.

#10	Put a photo of the author of your letters on your letterhead. For some reason this usually increases response. I think it does so because it tends to "personalize" your letter and, also, I think people like to have a mental picture of the person with whom they are dealing.
#11	Print your order card on yellow stock instead of whatever other color you are now using. The reason? Simple - yellow and black is the easiest-to-read color combination when it comes to print. This is especially important on order cards since many of them contain relatively small type.
#12	Call Bill Royal (804-648-4168) and tell him you are one of my subscribers and ask him to send you samples of the new envelopes he has designed. He's the guy who originally designed those envelopes the post office wants to outlaw and he's come up with some new ones that are real "high impact" beauties. By the way, remind him of those young girls he promised to fix me up with if I got him any new business.
#13	Put your phone number in the body copy of all your letters and invite your customers to call you if they have any questions.

This makes the prospects feel like it is safe to order. Like they can "reach out and touch you" if necessary. And, of course, the safer they feel, the more likely they are to order.

By the way do not use an 800 number for this purpose, use your "real" number.

And while I'm at it...

#14	Stop using an 800 service and starting taking your call-in orders yourself.

Listen: If you do this and you do it right and if you write a little "script" that teaches your employees how to "bump up" call-in orders, your gross will immediately jump 20% and your net by 40% or so.

Plus, it will make your 800 service (if you still use them at all) a little nervous and they will start doing a better job for you.

#15	If your package weighs an ounce or less and your unit of sale is $39.95 or more stop mailing bulk and start mailing first class.

When you do this, you will get a higher response and a much faster rate (isn't cash-flow important to you?) of response. Plus when you mail first class you can start to...

#16	KEEP A DAILY LOG OF YOUR NIXIES.

Now wait a minute. How in the world can keeping a daily log of your nixies improve your response rate? I dunno, really. All I know is that when you keep a "nixie log" (and when you make sure your list broker and all list owners know you are doing so) you will, after a while, tend to start getting lists that are cleaner and more responsive. Also, keeping a nixie log will do wonders when it comes to raising your consciousness level and sharpening up your mind. In addition, it will improve your vision by taking some of the stars out of your eyes.

Try it.

#17	Start renting more responsive mailing lists.

Start fighting for hotline names. Start networking (isn't that a dandy buzzword?) with five list brokers instead of just one. In fact, why not contact 10 or 20 or 30 or 40? And while I'm at it, why don't you contact the list owners and ask them if you can pay extra to get the hottest segments of their lists like the multi-buyers, the hotline names, the big ticket buyers and so on?

#18	Always test by mailing first class even if you are going to roll out using bulk!

Time is money. You can read first class results much faster. In fact you'll know how good your mailing is going to be within 12-days of your drop date. And hear this: The sooner you know what's likely to happen, the more able you will be to stop what's likely to happen from happening or, if you prefer, the more likely you will be to make what's likely to happen, happen.

#19	"Double team" everything you do!

Use more than one lettershop. Use more than one list broker. Use more than one printer. Use more than one copywriter. And believe it or not,

#20	Always mail at more than one post office!

Some post offices are "black holes" where advertising mail routinely gets lost.

Spread your business around and let everybody know you are doing so. Keep everybody on their toes. Make sure your mail gets accounted for and is treated with respect from go to woe.

And now, for the most important suggestion of all.

#21	SEND GARY HALBERT YOUR CONTROL PACKAGE AND ASK HIM FOR A FREE CRITIQUE.

I'm serious. If you subscribe to this newsletter, one of the perks is a free critique of your ads and letters. I'm happy to do this because:

A.  It keeps me sharp

B.  It helps me make new friends

C.  It sometimes gets me into profitable business relationships   and, of course, I like to do it because, let's face it...

I'm A Prince
Of A Guy!

     

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
In-Print Salesman

 

P.S.	Next month's newsletter is going to be special. When you read it you are going to think you died and went to direct-marketing heaven. You are going to learn how (and, I'm not kidding) to use direct response to make bundles of money and improve your sex life at the exact same time.

Stay close to your mail box.


P.S.#2	You might also try getting a celebrity to sign your letters (ask me how) or maybe using multiple stamps instead of just one, or, if you are going after a really big sale, you might try sending telegrams instead of letters, or how about including a free standing "polaroid" of whatever you're selling? Say, have you tried attaching something like a penny to the top of your letters and then telephoning your customers a few days later and "referencing" the attachment like this?:

"Mrs. Jones? Listen. This is Mr. Smith at ABC Widget Company. Did you get the letter I just sent you? You'll remember it if you did; it had a penny attached to the first page. You do remember? Good. Look, the reason I'm calling is because..."

Try this. If you do it right it will multiply your sales by 500%!

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Price Is Relative!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zskl_price_is_relative.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

My friend Joe Sugarman came down for the Super Bowl and I invited him and his pretty daughter, Jill, to take a little cruise with me on the trusty Original Sea Hunt.

So, there we were, tooling around in Port Everglades when we come upon a huge, bloated and tasteless vessel called the Trump Princess. What I do is, I steer over to just a few yards from this vulgar monstrosity and I yell out to a crew member, "Hey! Tell Donald that Gary Halbert and Joe Sugarman are here!"

The crew member said he would... right after Mr. Trump finished his nap.

The next day, I'm cruising with another old friend, Sam Kendes, who looks something like Walter Matthau with a world-class hangover. And, once again, I approach the Trump Princess and this time I yell out, "Hey! Tell Donald I can't make the mortgage payment this month and ask him if he's got enough money to make it by himself for the next 30 days!"

No response. This crew member didn't seem to have much of a sense of humor so I tootled on about my business.

Anyway, all this got me to reflect a bit on the Trump Princess and I go to idly speculating on what such a monster tub would cost. (I know, I know. If you have to ask, you can't afford it.) Which also led me to realize that one of the most important areas for me to cover in this newsletter is the matter of what is the most profitable price for you to charge for your goods and services.

Let me begin to focus in on this crucial subject by making an important observation which is...

Price Is Relative!

Listen: Fort Lauderdale offers (if you can afford it), the highest quality of living to be found anywhere in the U.S. and, probably, the world. It has 6-1/2 miles of uninteruppted beach, 170+ miles of inland waterways, (much more than Venice, Italy), a gorgeous subtropical climate and, for sickos who like that sort of thing, lots and lots of sweet sexy maidens running around in string bikinis.

It also has the Jungle Queen.

The Jungle Queen (actually, there are several of them now) is a large passenger touring boat that leaves almost every night of the year for a fascinating and informative trip up the New River which slices East/West through the heart of this wonderful city. During the trip, the tour guide points out the local attractions and he makes a special deal out of showing off those yachts and homes that will get an "ooh" and an "ahh" from his audience.

Well, he certainly did a good job and he got a lot of "oohs" and "ahhs" from me and Paulette... but not for the reasons he would have guessed. You see, when he would point out a particularly magnificent waterfront house and then say, "And guess what, folks, if you're in the market, this one just happens to be for sale and you can pick it up for only "X" dollars!" and the audience would marvel because it was so expensive and Paulette and I would marvel because, to us, it...

Seemed So Cheap!

Hold on! I'm not trying to say we've got monster bucks. No. What I'm saying is that we are from L.A. and, in the City of Angels, it costs more to buy an average home in an average neighborhood than it does to buy a waterfront mansion in this neck of the woods!

Price Is Relative!

A few days after our Jungle Queen trip, I'm taking a course in powerboat handling from the Bahia Mar Yachting School (I did great) and I get to talking to one of my fellow students named Ed who is from some dreadful state like New Jersey or somewhere. Ed is retired now but, previously, he traveled all over the world building power plants for General Electric. So, we get to shucking and jiving about the cost of living in various geographic locations and he tells me how outrageous it is in Tokyo, Japan. It seems that, over there, you have to have your car inspected every three years at a cost of $2,500. Also, he says, it'll set you back about $1,000,000 to join a country club. Fruit, he says, is not sold by the bunch, but rather by individually wrapped pieces and a single banana, for example, will run you about eight smackers!

You know, here in Lauderdale, whenever we are presented with a bill for something, Paulette and I have a tendency (unless the bill has something to do with a boat) to giggle. That's because, to us, the tab always seems so low.

Price Is Relative!

And, did you ever notice how Japanese tourists seem to giggle constantly... even in Los Angeles? Why? It's very simple. You see, to them, even L.A. prices are a joke.

Price Is Relative!

I believe all of us have psychological price points of resistance that are embedded in our psyches since childhood. I, for instance, know what a hamburger is supposed to cost. It's supposed to cost 25¢ and, if you want a slice of cheese on it, it is supposed to cost 35¢. And a Pepsi is supposed to cost 10¢.

And don't you try to tell me different!

You see, I know all this because I bought hundreds of hamburgers, cheese-burgers, and Pepsis from Bell's Diner on Wooster Road in Barberton, Ohio when I was in my teens and therefore... I know what this stuff is supposed to cost.

A relevant side trip: Years ago, I and my family lived for several weeks at The Plaza Hotel (one of my favorites along with the Pierre) in Manhattan. Never mind that the rooms were costing me hundreds. Never mind that the air fares cost me thousands. Never mind that cocktails in the Oak Bar would set you back a small fortune. No. All I could focus on was that those robbers were charging me $5.50* for a room service hamburger. (*FOOTNOTE: I had Paulette call the Plaza and check and the current price for a room service hamburger is $19.00!)

Can you deal with that? Whew!

I want you to imagine something. I want you to imagine you are on the ground floor of a tall, narrow building with one room per floor. You've got a ten foot pole in your hands and you are pushing the sharpened, pointy end of that pole against the ceiling...

Which Is Made Of Hard Rubber!

You push and push. You sweat and strain and finally you break through to the second floor. And then, you run upstairs and you pull your pole through the hole you've made and it is almost effortless to keep your pole going up and up until you come to the hard rubber ceiling of the second floor. And then, once again, you meet a lot of resistance. But, once again, when you do break through, it's easy going until you come to the ceiling of the third floor.

And so on.

And so it is with points of price resistance. What I'm trying to illuminate here is that, once you break through a certain level of price resistance, you may as well go all the way to the next resistance point. For example, a common price point in mail order ads is $19.95. Now, most of my experience tells me that, if you are going above $19.95, you may as well go all the way to $39.95. And, after $39.95, you may as well go all the way to $69.95.

A curious story: Years ago, I  was selling an El Cheapo impulse item and I tested $1.00, $2.00, and $3.00 and the $3.00 price won hands-down. But, when I tried to go above the $3.00 level -- even to just $3.10 -- my sales went right into the toilet!

So, how much should you charge for what you are selling? That's the real question, isn't it? Hang on. I'll cover that in just a bit. But first, here are a few ideas I have about price points:

t	If you are going after "just slightly qualified" leads and you want to eliminate freeloaders, ask the folks to send you $1.00 or $2.00.

But, at this range, do not ask for a fractional mount like 97¢.

By the way, Blade Thomas (an excellent copywriter) and I once worked on an ad headlined "The Amazing Blackjack Secret of a Las Vegas Mystery Man" and we charged $2.00 for postage and handling for our written material and...

Those $2 Payments Covered The Entire Cost
Of A Full-Page Newspaper Ad!

t



t



t


t


t

t	$3.00 is probably the most viable price when you are trying to make a profit with a low cost impulse item.

If you are going above $3.00, I suggest you go all the way to $7.95 plus $1.00 postage and handling.

The next stop (if I were doing the testing) would be $9.95 plus $2.00 postage and handling.

Next: $14.95 plus $2.00 postage and handling.

Next: $19.95 plus $3.00 postage and handling.

Next: $39.95 plus $3.00 postage and handling. That's right. My experience leads me to believe that, after $19.95...

There Are No More Hard Rubber Ceilings
Until You Hit $39.95!

t     Next: $69.95 plus $3.00 postage and handling.

t     Next: $97.50 plus $5.00 postage and handling.

t     Next: $134.50 and no postage and handling.

t     Next: $195.00 and no postage and handling.

NOTE: These prices are not etched in stone. No. They are merely intelligent guidelines.

Now, here's another tidbit of interest: You notice I've emphasized that you should go from $19.95 straight to $39.95 with no stop in between, right? OK, but listen: That's only for when you are selling direct from the ad or letter. If your ad asks people to telephone and, at your end, you have people reading a short, low-pressure, "path-of-least-resistance" sales pitch, I suggest you ask for $24.50 which, for some strange reason, seems to be the price that proves out the most profitable in these situations.

Also, you can probably get away with having your phone person tack on another $3.50 for shipping, etc.

Another thought: If you are price testing on a new promotion, test at the lowest price at which you could reasonably hope to make a profit. Also, test this lowest price to a group of your very hottest prospects.

Why? Simply because most new projects fail and, if they are going to do so...

You Want To Fail As Fast As Possible!

Listen up: Time is the irretrievable element. What you don't want is to end up with bad numbers and be wondering, "Gee, maybe it would've worked if I only hadn't asked for so much money. Maybe I should re-test at a lower price."

No good. Look, Buckwheat, maybe this deal wouldn't fly even if you gave the item away and, if so...

You Want To Find Out
Your Very First Shot Out Of The Box!

Now, let's go to the other end of the scale. What if you're tying to sell something much more expensive like a seminar? Or a yacht? Or a Rolls Royce? Or your consulting services?

If so, my first piece of advice is...

Sell It For What It's Worth!

Don't ask for more. Even if some people will pay it. Why? Because it's not ethical, damn it, and you'll be cheating someone and that sucks.

Don't ask for less. If you do, you'll be cheating (and demeaning) yourself and that sucks also.

Come closer. Listen: I don't know for sure, but maybe I'm the most in-demand copywriter in the country. Believe it or not, I really do turn down 9 out of 10 prospective clients (read "Can You Afford to Hire the Amazing Prince of Print?" to understand why) and, because of this, I can, within reason, charge pretty much whatever I wish. However, in many cases, people are so eager to work with me that they are willing to pay far more than my standard fee.

But I Don't Take It!

And, why not? Simply because it isn't right. Look, whenever I go into a deal I do not go into it as a negotiator. No. I go into it as a detective. And what I'm trying to "detect" is what deal is fairest and most likely to work for everyone concerned.

I don't want more than my share.

I don't want less than my share.

You know, there are many people in the world of business who get their jollies out of besting someone else in a deal. They gloat when they find a printer down on his luck and they can squeeze him to sell them envelopes at less than cost. They hammer all their suppliers down to the last cent. If they're in direct mail, they want everybody's profit... even as far back as the guy who grows the tress that are used to make the paper the sales letters are printed on.

How sad. These guys are often wealthy and they think they are a success. But they're not. They're just lonely, lop-sided losers. Here's a composite picture of a typical American tragedy:

He's a multi-millionaire and he owns a chain of 73 retail widget outlets. He's 60 pounds overweight and his cholesterol level is sky high. He hasn't had a meaningful talk with his kids in five years and they're all taking drugs and think of him as a pathetic cartoon figure. He and his wife have separate bedrooms and his love life is nothing but a faded memory.

And so on.

And, can you guess what is the #1 priority of this miserable wretch? That's easy. What he's most concerned with is...

Opening His 74th Retail Widget Outlet!

What's that? You say you didn't subscribe to this letter so I could have a soapbox upon which to spew out my vapid moralizations? You say you want something really useful and immediately profitable on the subject of pricing?

Alright, what if I reveal unto you why the prices you are currently charging (no matter how many tests you've made) are probably way off the mark as far as maximum profitability is concerned? OK, boss? So, now hear this:

The Most Profitable Price
You Can Charge Varies Dramatically
Depending On How "Sold" Your Prospects Are!!!

Listen: About 70% of all adult Americans (including me) are porkers. Now, suppose someone offers one of us porkers a safe diet pill that we are 100% certain will let us continue to pig out to our heart's content and still lose weight like crazy? What would we pay for such a pill... if we were 100% sold that it would cure our weight problem forever?

Thousands. Thousands and thousands and thousands. Maybe even 100 or 200 thousand. And more!

Truly, it is so. But, since we are almost never "100% sold", we elect to take a "$19.95 chance" or a "$39.95 chance" or a "$69.95 chance" or whatever. Hey, let some lukewarm dork of a copywriter write a package for your investment newsletter and you may find that your best price (since you're only pulling in the hottest of the hot prospects) is very low... like maybe $19.95.

But then, if you're smart enough to pay the tab to get a real "killer" copywriter like Gary Bencivenga to do a direct mail package for you, you may find your most profitable price is much, much higher. Remember this:

A Lukewarm Sales Job
Forces You To Charge
Lukewarm Prices!

Often, a new client tells me that he "knows", from all his extensive split run tests, that his most profitable price is this or that.

Oh yeah? Well I never accept that at face value because I'm always thinking...

"You Don't Know Squat, Pilgrim --
Not Until Sir Gary Has Taken
A Shot At This Deal!"

Now, here's a very important insight I got from my friend Eric Weinstien who, for my money, is the best damn list broker in the country:

The Hottest (Most Responsive) Mailing Lists
Are Made Up Of Names Of People Who Have
Responded To The Weakest Of Offers!

Think about it. Only the hungriest fish will bite the crappiest bait.

OK, let's suppose you've got a strong sales presentation and you've tested all kinds of prices and you've come up with the one that works best for you. How do we improve on this? Trust me, you're going to love this insight -- which I'll begin to explain by reminding you that...

There Is No Law That Says
We Can't Charge A Different Price
To Different Groups Of People
Who Live In Different Geographic Locations
Or Who Have Different Income Levels
Or Perhaps A Different "Passion Level"
For What We Are Selling!!!

Hoo, haa Steverino! We're cooking now, ain't we?

t



t



t



t
	Who says we have to charge the people in Mississippi the same as we charge the people in Manhattan?

Who says we can't do a different price test in every different state?

Who says the price we charge in the National Enquirer has to be the same as what we charge in the New York Times?

Who says we have to charge the same price to M.D.'s that we charge to ditch diggers?

Hey, maybe we should start "customizing" our presentations, our product, our product's name and packaging and even our price...

According To Whom We Are Pitching!

Capisce?

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	

   Gary 
"The Price is Right"         
   Halbert



P.S.	

I've recently come across a book I consider "must" reading. It's called "The Clustering of America" and it's written by Michael J. Weiss and published by Harper & Row.


P.P.S.	Don't you dare miss next month's letter. It's one of the most important I'll ever write.

A final thought: BEWARE THE MAN WHO KNOWS THE PRICE OF EVERYTHING AND THE VALUE OF NOTHING!



Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Gary Halbert Letter

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zakk_grabbers.htm

Not avaliable on iTunes... Get the audio version of this newsletter here!

 

From:
W-A-Y West Of Jewfish Creek.

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Please remove the stress control biofeedback card from the top of this letter and hold your thumb on the dark rectangle for a count of ten.

Now, remove your thumb and check the color in the rectangle to find out how stressed you are at this very moment.

How'd you do? Are you calm, normal or tense? Or, worst of all, did you happen to get a black reading that suggests your frame of mind is about the same as a long-tailed cat in a room full of rocking chairs?

No matter. At least it's no matter if any of your stress is caused because you can't figure out how to make your direct mail more effective. You see, if you are stressed out for that reason, I want you to take the test again after you finish this letter... because... by then, your stress level should be much lower. Why? The answer is simple: You see, you are about to learn one of my main secrets for pushing direct mail response to the outer limits of profitability by the intelligent use of what I call...

Grabbers!

What's a grabber? Hey, I'm glad you asked. Enquiring minds really do want to know, don't they?

O.K., Buckwheat, a grabber is what I call something you can attach to the top a letter that grabs your reader's immediate attention and he can then grab and remove it from the letter and hold it in his grubby little hands.

In other words, a grabber is something that grabs a reader's attention and then turns him into a "grabbee" who grabs the grabber if your copy can weave an intelligent and compelling reason for doing so as I just did with you.

Oh hell, you know what I mean.

Now, listen up: Providing you've been using all the other techniques I've been revealing to you (A-Pile, B-Pile, the "magic" sealed envelope, etc.) there is nothing I know of that can hype your response as much as a grabber.

How much profit can a grabber grab? I'm going to answer that question in just a moment right after I take another of my famous little "side trips" to give you a useful little nugget of information. Hark unto me. Listen: A short time ago, I ordered something published by...

 

The Dartnell Corporation
4660 Ravenswood Avenue
Chicago, Illinois  60640

 

called...

"The Greatest Direct Mail
Sales Letters OF ALL TIME"

- How They Were Created
- Why They Succeeded
- How You Can Create
  Great Sales Letters, Too!

 

Buy this book! I forget how much it is but, it's certainly not overpriced like all my stuff. And, it's great. It truly is a collection of absolutely superb direct mail letters... plus... it has "Tips From The Experts," a collection of "Letter Leads" and another on "Letter Closes." This was all put together by a guy named Richard S. Hodgson who has done one hell of a good job.

My kudos.

However, after having said all that, I must also say it seems to me Mr. Hodgson seems to have inexplicably left out from his excellent compilation, what are, perhaps, the two most successful letters in all of direct mail history.

The first one was written by yours truly and it is the one-pager used to sell the family name, coat-of-arms research report sold by Halbert's Inc. The reason I think Mr. Hodgson should have included this letter is twofold: (1) It is, I believe, the most-widely mailed (140 million, all sent first-class) letter in history and it produced a huge front-end profit and generated...

7,300,000 Cash
With Order Customers!

And the second reason is, that by leaving this letter out, Mr. Hodgson has inadvertently hurt my feelings... a situation I am sure any sensitive truly caring person would be eager to correct.

Oh well, let me wipe the tears from my eyes so I can continue. O.K., more to the point of this month's subject, the second letter Mr. Hodgson left out is the most successful grabber of all time. You'll find it on page 394 in the chapter on "SHOWMANSHIP" of the Robert Collier Letter Book. Here is what it says:

Dear Mr. Jones,

   Here's a dollar. -- Yes, it's a REAL dollar --
nice and clean and new.

   Keep it if you want to, after you've read this
letter -- but I don't believe you will, then.

   Here's what it's all about:

   I've made an investment -- of a thousand dollars --
in human nature, human kindness.  I've mailed a thousand
dollars -- in a thousand letters to a thousand people 
picked at random.  I have done this because I believe
that everyone is really kind -- that no one is really
heartless -- and that the only reason why folks do not
help where help is needed is just because these needs
are not impressed upon them hard enough.

   And that's the mission of each of my thousand
dollars -- to impress the importance of a need.  This 
thousand dollars is my subscription to the Blank Hos-
pital -- and I'm investing it in the belief that every 
one will bring back several more -- at least another --
with it.  So our subscription, which I'm starting in
this way, will be at least two thousand -- maybe five,
for there's going to be a lot of you send a five or a 
ten or more when you mail my dollar back.

   Remember -- both my dollar and your dollars go to
help crippled children.

   Will EVERY ONE come back?

   Are people really kind -- or REALLY heartless?

                            Sincerely,

 

 

And how much loot did this grabber letter grab? Here's the scoop right from the book:

"That letter pulled better than a 90 percent
response.  The writer of it told me that from
175,000 letters mailed, he got back about
$270,000, plus more than 90 percent of the
dollar bills he had mailed out.

But this was only the start.  From the list
of more than 150,000 people who gave that
$270,000, further subscriptions were secured
to the amount of some $10,000,000."

 

And, don't forget, we're talking about ten million dollars back when it was worth something because this letter was mailed...

More Than
50 Years Ago!

And guess what else? This same letter was recently tested (with modernized wording) and... once again... got 90%+ results.

Hoo! Haa! Maybe we should look into this idea of attaching grabbers to letters a little closer, you think?

Now, as you probably have already guessed, my favorite type of grabber to attach to a letter is money. I use dollar bills, $2.00 bills, Japanese yens, Mexican pesos or whatever else makes sense. If it's a penny, the copy often starts like this:

Dear Friend,

     As you can see, I have attached a bright, shiny
penny to the top of this letter.  Why have I done this?
Actually, there are two reasons:

     #1  First, since I have something extremely
         important to tell you, I needed some way
         to make sure this letter would catch your
         attention.

     #2  And secondly, since this letter concerns
         how you can make (or save) a lot of money,
         I thought using a penny as a little
         "financial eyecatcher" was especially
         appropriate..

   Here's what it's all about. Etc., etc.

 

In the case of the Japanese yen (a very light weight little aluminum coin) the second reason can be something like:

"... and since what I'm writing about 
      was discovered in Japan, etc., etc."

Or, in the case of the Mexican peso, you start writing about how this once proud currency used to be the standard against how other currencies were measured but now it takes a wheelbarrow full of pesos to buy just one kruggerrand.

And then, of course, you go on to weave into your letter a story about the ravages of inflation and how it really can happen here... and... of course, why if you buy the financial report or newsletter (or whatever) this sales letter is touting, you won't have to worry about such a catastrophe.

You know, once I did a letter for my friend, the late Joe Karbo, that sold a system to beat the horses and I attached a $2.00 bill to the top of each letter which said in part...

"... and since I'm so sure this betting system will work for you, I've even decided to send you the attached two bucks with which to make your first bet..."

And so on. Enough about money. Now, let's see what else we can use for a grabber that has an almost universal application? Well, if you want to know about something else which nearly always works, trying sending what is, or appears to be...

A Genuine Photograph!

Listen: You want to be a marketing hero to yourself, your company and/or one of your clients? Try this: If your DM sales piece currently includes a brochure, eliminate it from the next mailing and, instead, send what appears to be a homemade amateur Polaroid or 35 millimeter photograph. Perhaps you are sending this photo because this is a brand new product and you wanted the reader to be among the first to know about it and you didn't want to delay getting the scoop to him until you had brochures printed up. Maybe the photo is of you or whomever else is signing the letter because, as you explain in your letter, you're an old-fashioned guy who believes people ought to at least be able to know what a person looks like if they are going to do business with him. Maybe the photo is of a special part of the product you are selling that helps you explain (and your reader visualize) why your product works so much better than the products of your competitors.

Whatever. The main thing is by sending a photo (very personal, very human, very warm) instead of a printed brochure (very impersonal, cold and technical) your letter will be humanized and that, my friend, is what catapults direct mail response to levels virtually undreamed of by most "experts."

Want another idea? You do? You're trying a greedy, little mind sucker, aren't you? Well, good for you! Let's see, what could you and I use for a grabber if we were truly to sell beachfront condos in Maui? Hmn? How about attaching a little plastic baggie filled with sand and sending out letters which start like this:

Dear Friend,

     See that little baggie stapled to the top of this
letter?

     You want to know what's in it?  Well, let me tell
you, the contents of that baggie is something that's
rapidly becoming one of the rarest and most valuable
substances on earth.

     In fact, it is earth.  Or rather sand.  Sand from
the most exclusive beachfron property in Maui which is
rapidly disappearing ... blah, blah, blah, blah, etc.,
etc.

 

Zowie! I'm truly on a roll now, ain't I? Let's see, what kind of grabber could we use if our brain energy is at an extremely low ebb (a condition very common to advertising people) and we can't think of anything especially applicable but we want to use a grabber anyway? Hey, I know! How about sending a real, live...

First-Class Postage Stamp!

No. No. No. Not the reply envelope. I'm talking about attaching the stamp to the top of the letter so then you can write something like...

Dear Friend,

     As you can see, I have attached a $.22 first-class
stamp to the top of this letter.

     Why?  The answer is simple.

     You see, I've got a proposition for you and I need
an answer right away.  So please, as soon as you finish
this letter, remove the stamp and put it on the enclosed
reply envelope and mail me your answer immediately.

     Here's why it's so important.  Blah, blah, blah,
etc., etc.

 

Use your imagination. Send a couple of aspirins "because the first part of this letter is going to give you a headache"... and then later... your letter will present another solution for the headache, something more permanent than aspirin. Send a feather... "can you imagine having to use this instead of a word processor to create your next business report?" Send a little lump of coal in a baggie... "ever see a diamond before it was old enough to sparkle?" Send a... oh nuts! If I haven't got your mind in gear by now, you're hopeless.

But, you're not hopeless, are you? No Sir, you're one of my subscribers who are (truly) among the smartest people in the world like, for instance, Don Clifton, a realtor in Spokane, Washington who sends a letter with a $1.00 check attached that has several survey questions printed on the back. Questions which help him qualify people as to whether or not they could use a speaker to inspire and inform people who work as real estate agents. The way it works is, you tick off your answers on the little squares next to the questions on the back of the check and then you deposit the check. And then, when the cancelled check comes back to Don with his bank statement, he'll know some useful stuff about you... and... when he contacts you again...

You'll Damn Sure Remember
Him, Won't You?

So far, he's got 538 back out of less than 1,500 mailed and each of his check statements brings more hot leads.

Isn't that a neat idea? Of course, in the next few months or so, I'll get real "creative" and maybe figure some way I can take credit for this little gem.

Why not? I've always suspected I might be missing some thrills by being an original... instead of a thief.

Not avaliable on iTunes... Get the audio version of this newsletter here!

      Really stands out, doesn't it?

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
 
P.S. 	That little stress control biofeedback card is truly a humdinger of a grabber... and... considering how much they could pump up your results... they're pretty cheap. The way you get them is by calling Steven A. Bair at (714) 841-8989.

 


P.P.S.	If you're really mailing a lot of letters and you need pennies or any other type of coin attached in huge numbers, call Steve McClenehan for this and other types of first-class lettershop work at (213) 634-6484.

 


 	So, that's it for this month except for one admonition:
 
Don't Miss Next Month's
Letter -- When You Get
It Read It Immediately. . .
Because . . . It Will Be, By
Far, The Most Important
One I've Ever Written
 
 
 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The ABC's Of Protecting Your Customer List!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zdkj_protecting_customer_list.htm

From:
WAY West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Hark unto me. As promised, this month I'm going to teach you how to steal!

There's lots of theft going on in direct marketing, isn't there? Here is how (sort of) some of it got started. Once upon a time, there lived a man in Direct Marketing Land whose name was Cletus Fleetfeet. Clete was a bright boy. He had written a book on how to beat the horses and, after being rejected by several publishers, he decided to market the book himself by direct mail. He wrote a compelling sales letter and he put together a very effective, high-pulling DM package. He was able to mail this package with outstanding results to several lists.

Then, he had a stroke of real luck! He found a list of people who had already bought several other books on horseracing and were eager to buy more. This list was owned by a man named Ned Notsoswift and, although it took a lot of wining and dining, Clete finally convinced Ned to let him rent his list.

And so he did. With unreal results. He was selling his horseracing book for $59.95 plus $3.00 for postage and handling (total $62.95) and, when he mailed Ned's list, he got a 14% cash-with-order response!

He was in heaven. He decided to keep mailing Ned's list over and over with other offers on how to win at gambling. Pretty soon he had six different offers and he was developing new ones at the rate of one or two per month.

Clete was mailing like crazy. And making money hand over fist. And driving a big Caddy with a sunroof and mudflaps. And learning to eat caviar (which he hated) and to drink Dom Perignon (which he loved) and how to impress dumb little girls with small minds and big chests.

However, in spite of all this, Clete was in pain. Real pain. Big pain.

What was the source of his pain, you ask? It's quite simple: The source of Clete's pain was that $200.00 per thousand list rental he had to pay Ned Notsoswift every time he rented Ned's list. Clete hated that. It didn't matter to Clete that he was making a fortune mailing to Ned's list. No. What mattered to Clete was that he was now having to pay Ned upwards of $30,000 per month in rental fees.

And who the hell was Ned to deserve that kind of money? Hell, all Ned had to do, every time Clete wanted to use the list, was make a phone call and tell his letter shop to run off more labels. Thirty thousand a month for making a few phone calls? Unfair! Unjust! Outrageous!

And so, Clete decided to steal Ned's list.

And so he did. And he mailed it over and over and made lots of money. And poor old Ned, even though he was very suspicious, could never prove a thing so he took to drinking and shooting up with chicken fat until his arteries got all clogged and he died of a heart attack.

So much for Ned.

Clete, however, kept rolling right along. He continued to mail Ned's list and found several others that worked nearly as well. He would've also stolen these lists except, by this time, Clete had developed a rep. Nobody really trusted him. Therefore, when Clete came to these more savvy list owners, they said:

"Clete, we want to rent our lists to you because, like you, we are greedy for money. However, since we are somewhat paranoid, we have invented a procedure that hereinafter shall be known as salting the list."

And, of course, they went on to explain to Clete how that worked. How they would "salt" their lists with "dummy" names and how, if those names received more than one solicitation from Clete, they would know he had stolen the list.

Clete was chagrined. By this time, he was making a fortune but other people around him like printers, letter shops (and especially list owners) were making a little too and Clete didn't like that. Not one bit! So Clete started thinking and scheming, and eventually he figured out a new way to steal large portions of valuable mailing lists, even though those lists were liberally salted with decoy or "dummy" names. Here's how he did it. First, he contacted a computer expert and he told the guy that he wanted him to invent the "merge/purge".

"What's a merge/purge?" asked the expert.

"That's what you're going to invent," said Clete. "You see, many mailing lists that are made up of buyers of similar products have a lot of overlap. In other words, many of the names are on more than one list. So what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna tell all the owners of the gambling lists that I rent that it's unfair for me to pay six times for a name that appears on six different lists and identical promotions. And therefore I'm gonna tell them they should let me merge all the files and then purge out the dupes so I don't have to mail a name more than once. I'm also gonna tell those owners I should pay them a reduced rental rate and pay them on what I'm gonna call a ‘net name’ basis."

"Sounds good to me," said the expert.

Well, after a while, it sounded good to the owners also and they agreed to Clete's scheme.

Which, in fact, really was a good idea if used for legitimate purposes.

But, of course, we all know that sweet Ol' Clete had a bit of difficulty staying on the straight and narrow and, as I'm sure you've already figured out, an "invisible" benefit of the merge/purge process had already occurred to Clete. That benefit, of course, was that the process would enable him to steal a lot of names, in fact, the very best names, with no worries about getting caught.

You see, as Clete realized, a merge/purge kicks out only multi-buyers; those hot customers who have bought more than one gambling system, or diet book, or whatever. And, of course, a name that appears on more than one list cannot be a "decoy" name, can it?

It worked like this: Clete would get in a dozen or so mag tapes of lists he was going to use. He'd put them through a merge/purge process and kick out all the dupes. Then, he'd pay a reduced "net-name" rental to all the list owners plus he'd save a lot on mailing costs since he would only be mailing one solicitation to each multi-buyer.

But the big benefit, the one that made Clete really happy, was when he made a separate tape that contained all the dupes (which were the multi-buyers) which he then considered his own private property that he could mail to whenever he wanted, without paying any sort of rental fee.

Pretty neat, huh?

But wait. Clete wasn't finished yet. No sir. Not by a long shot. You see, after Clete mailed all his promotions to his hot new list, he decided to make even more money by renting that list to other mailers. That's right, what he did was, he made up a phony list card describing how the people on the list had responded to a certain non-existent offer, and he sent that card around to all the list brokers in the U.S. Now, some of these brokers were a bit suspicious since they'd never heard of the offer that was supposed to have built the list. However, no big deal. You see, that list really was hot. After all, it contained only multi-buyers and, therefore, it worked like crazy for a lot of mailers.

Clete's larcenous little heart just loved this kind of action. I mean, just imagine. In some cases he was renting names back to the same people from whom he'd stolen them!

But there was more to come. Clete decided to become the very best list thief in history. He purchased a controlling interest in the service bureau that was doing all his computer work and then, using a couple of his friends as a front, he set himself up in the list management and list brokerage business.

Here's how Clete works today: Every time any kind of list tape passes through his service bureau for any reason whatsoever, that mag tape gets duped. All those duped tapes are then run off against each other on a structured, orderly basis and then, whenever there is a match, in other words, when a certain name and address appears on more than one list, that name becomes Clete's property.

And what does Ol' Clete do with these names? It's very simple. Whenever he has a proprietary promotion that will work to these names, he mails it. And, when he doesn't, he'll create a mag tape out of some of them, create a phony list card to describe the names and then he rents them to the industry.

And wow, did Clete ever get sophisticated at this kind of stuff!

Check this out: In Washington D.C. there is a government agency called the Federal Election Commission. It is the job of this agency (FEC) to keep politicians honest (hyuk, hyuk) and elections clean; to minimize the control exerted by lobbyists, fat cats, and political action committees. It is mandated by federal law that all elected federal officials must give the FEC the name and the address of everyone who has contributed money to help them get elected. The amount donated must also be negotiated.

This list is a matter of public record. Everybody has access to it. However, it is illegal to use this list for fund raising or any kind of solicitation to get money to help some politician elected. This list is heavily seeded.

But oh so valuable.

So what is a guy like Clete to do? A guy who realizes the enormous potential of such a file and who is well connected to certain shrewd political hopefuls who know full well the power of direct marketing and the value of such a sweet list. How about this? How about running this file against a really huge file of compiled names like those maintained by Donnelly, Polk, or Metromedia, and looking for telematches?

And then, whenever you get a "hit" (match) you can mail that name with impunity, because, if push comes to shove, you can always say you got that name from the phone book.

Hmn? Has Ol' Clete got any other tricks up his sleeve? You bet! How about "tagging"? Let's say I've got a big list of 10 million names and let's say you rent me your list of 100,000 names which is made up of buyers of porno tapes. What I do, in addition to making that mailing you said I could, is also pass your little file against my big file and every time there is a match, (a "hit"), I tag the name on my file with that little bit of extra info that "tags" my guy as a lover of porno.

Does Clete know any other tricks? What? Are you kidding? Clete has a bushel of them and he comes up with new ones almost daily! I've hardly scratched the surface and I don't pretend to know them all. In fact, to tell the truth, I bet I don't know even 10% of Clete's tricks!

And he seems to be in the process of living happily ever after.

Who is Clete? Actually, he's a composite. There are any number (more than you would ever guess) of Cletes throughout our industry. Truly. There really are many service bureaus that automatically dupe and retain a copy of every file they receive. Do you know what that means? Do you fully understand the ramifications of what I've been trying to tell you here?

Listen. If you are actively engaged in direct marketing, your customer list is by far the most valuable asset your company will ever have. You know, I realized I could have told "Clete's story" in fewer words. However, I decided it was worth the risk of being criticized for being garrulous in order to drive home my point which is...

Mailing Lists Are Routinely Being Stolen Everyday!

Don't let it happen to you. Your customer list is the life blood of your company. Here are the ABC's of how to protect it:

#A.	"Salt" your lists with a lot of decoy names. I know. I know. This advice is old hat. But the key words here are "a lot". Believe it or not, under today's conditions, if you have a customer list of 100,000 names, your list should contain no fewer than fifty decoy names. That's right. One out of every 2,000 names you send out for rental should be a decoy. Not only that, you should be systematically adding new decoy names at least once every month.

Here's an easy way to do this. Let's say your middle name is Clifford. O.K. then what you do is you ask permission of your friends and associates to use their last names and their addresses as part of your decoy system. Let's say you have a friend named Baker. Well, what you do is you make an arrangement with him to give you every piece of mail that arrives at his home or place of business that is addressed to "Clifford Baker". Do this with lots of people (as long as their first name isn't Clifford) and then have your service bureau make all those Cliffords (Clifford Baker, Clifford Halbert, Clifford Adams, etc.) part or your customer file.

And then, watch all that mail that goes to all those Cliffords "like a hawk."

By the way, you may also want to contact the U.S. Monitor Service (914-634-1331) and ask them about their mail decoy service. In addition, it may be worthwhile to check your phone book under "mailing receiving services" for the names of companies that rent private mail boxes.

#B.	The next thing you should do, after you've liberally salted your own customer file, is you should salt the files of all of your competitors. It's easy. You do this by using a decoy name and becoming one of their customers. Now obviously, you can't always know when you get a mailing from one of your competitor's competitors if the second guy did or did not in fact rent the list. However, if your decoy name starts getting battered by mailings from one particular company, you might want to phone whomever owns the list you have decoyed and tell him you are getting a lot of mail from "Clete's Handicapping Service" and see if he has been renting his list all that much to Clete.

By the way, if you are actively engaged in direct marketing, you should make some sort of mail order purchase every month from every one of your competitors PLUS you should be one of the customers on every file you rent with any regularity whatsoever. You know, it never ceases to amaze me how few people do this. It's the cheapest market research you can buy. Just think: For a couple of hundred dollars a month, even a huge multi-million dollar company can know just about everything their competitors are doing!

#C.	Become known as a "junkyard dog" when it comes to protecting your list. Let people know your list is liberally salted. Let people know you will actively pursue anybody you even suspect of pilfering your list. Every time you send out a mag tape, also send a letter that says in effect "DON'T YOU DARE COPY THIS LIST. DON'T EVEN DREAM OF STEALING THESE NAMES!" Then tell them who your attorney is (mine is Sid Vicious) and tell them how he gets paid a bonus for biting off the kneecaps of list thieves. And so on.

By the way, get yourself a copy of the list rental agreement you have to sign if you want to rent the Wall Street Journal or Barron's subscriber list. Now there's the way a rental agreement should look.

I'm sure you get the idea.

You know, I'm fearful this issue of my newsletter was not as interesting as some of the others. This time, I think some of the points may have been too obvious and old hat for many of you. I'm sorry if that's the case. However, if this elementary info helps save even one subscriber from falling victim to Ol' Clete, then maybe it was worthwhile.

And anyway, maybe I'll make it up to you next month by writing about something complicated.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"The Sunset Scribe"

 

P.S.	Would you like to hire me to help you improve your DM packages? If so you should call me right away, because, for a very brief period of time, I can now "be had" by my subscribers on a very favorable basis. Ask me why.



Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Little Blue Books!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/zgkj_blue_books.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Before I get cranked up on this month's main subject, I want to discuss a few items of interest. First of all, when I sent a copy of my seminar ad with last month's newsletter, I did so because I wanted to illustrate how a copywriter ought to be able to write an ad to promote his services.

Well, as it turns out, a number of my subscribers were a little miffed at me because they wanted to go to the seminar and I didn't give them enough warning. I'm sorry about that; I guess I just wasn't thinking. However, this month (on the 23rd) I'm giving another seminar and this time it's at the Century Plaza Hotel in Los Angeles. I'd love to see you there. If you are interested, you can read my new ad (enclosed) which is appearing in the Los Angeles Times.

But, if you want to register, please don't delay. The room only seats 130 and it's going to fill up in a flash.

Next, I want to talk a moment about how you can profit (maybe) from cable TV at no risk whatsoever. I'm doing a lot of cable work now (two shows on the air, two in the can, and one more scheduled for shooting) and I'm looking for new ideas. Many of you, I suspect have direct mail or space promotions that could be easily adapted to TV. If so, I'd like to talk to YOU. Do your marketing efforts have what Sir Gary calls the "Three S's" needed for cable success?"

"S"	#1:	A Star: someone who is an authority on what you are selling.
"S"	#2:	A Story: something we can talk about in a TV   interview.
"S"	#3:	A Solution: This is the most important "S" of all.  Does your product or service solve a problem such as poverty, hemorrhoids, obesity, boredom, hunger or the need to be rich and famous?

Are you marketing something that has all these elements? If so, give me a call because I might be able to line you up with a cable show with NO investment on your part.

That'd be nice, wouldn't it?

Thirdly, do any of you happen to know how someone with a new mail order business can get a merchant account for MasterCard, Visa and American Express? If you do know, I'd really appreciate if you would share that info with me.

Fourthly and finally, I have never, in all my years of of writing, received such an enthusiastic response as I have from those of you who've read the BORON LETTERS.

Thank you very much.

So, now that I've got all that out of the way, let's get cooking. This month's issue is going to be special. Here is why. More than 60 years ago, a man named E. Haldeman-Julius conducted the most fascinating and large-scale market research program I've ever heard about. Are you familiar with Haldeman-Julius? He's the guy who published the world famous Little Blue Books.

What's that? You've never heard of the Little Blue Books? What are you anyway, just a young kid? You say you're wondering what a publishing venture you've never even heard about can teach you about marketing?

Plenty. The story of the Little Blue Books offers up a treasure trove of marketing insights that is pure gold. Here are the details: Once upon a time, way back in the 1920's, the Little Blue Books were born. They were, all in all, a collection of some 2,000 titles. All the books had a blue cover and measured 3-1/2 by 5 inches. Most often they contained 64 pages, although sometimes they went up to 128 pages. The content of the Little Blue Books was wide and varied. They covered everything from Shakespeare to the Debate on Birth Control. Many of them were self-help books of the "How To" genre. They were sold in large ads that appeared in many of the major newspapers and other publications such as Colliers and the Saturday Evening Post. They sold for a nickel (5 cents) and you had to buy at least 20 of them with every order.

Now listen: Do you remember when Playboy magazine first hit the newsstands? Remember the technique of how to buy it? Remember how you'd go to a newsstand and grab copies of Life and Look and maybe the National Geographic and a couple of others and then you'd pick up a Playboy and hide it in the middle of all those others when you went up to the cash register?

You do remember all that? Geez, time sure passes, doesn't it? Well, since a person had to buy 20 Little Blue Books at a time, that meant he could anonymously sandwich in an order for what he really wanted to read or learn about with all that stuff society was telling him he was supposed to be interested in.

To say that the Little Blue Books sold well would be somewhat of an understatement. How many of them were sold? I'm glad you asked because the answer is.....

More Than 100 Million!

And listen to this: After Haldeman-Julius had sold over 100 million of these little books, then he wrote a book titled The First Hundred Million to tell what he had learned from this publishing venture. His statistics are amazing. They reveal exactly what interested the American public in the 1920s and in exactly what relative proportions. And you know what? Those statistics are dead on target today!

What subject was the American public most willing to pay and read about in the 1920's? The same one they're most willing to pay to read about today.

Sex.

Indeed, The First Hundred Million is a book that contains a precise and valid statistical measurement of America's inner most needs and greeds. So why didn't I mention it in last month's newsletter when I listed the greatest marketing books of all time? Simply because I didn't have a copy of it and I wasn't sure it was obtainable. Those others that are out-of-print are hard to find but, with a little effort, they are at least gettable. So anyway, what happens is a good friend and long-time client of mine, Brian Smith and his trusty helper Amy, found a copy of Haldeman-Julius' book and Xeroxed it for me!

Thank You! Thank You! Thank You!

And now, without further adieu, I am simply going to extract for you some data from this wonderful book. Haldeman-Julius sold 20,700,000 Little Blue Books in 1927. Many of then were about sex. Let's see what we can learn from his annual sales figures for that year. Hmn? A book titled The Art of Kissing sold 60,500 copies, yet one titled The Art Of Courtship sold only 17,500 copies. What Married Women Should Know (a euphemistic titled that Haldeman-Julius really wanted to call Sex Facts For Married Women) sold 112,000 copies while What Married Men Should Know sold 97,500 copies. Women's Sexual Life sold 97,500 copies, Man's Sexual Life sold 54,000 copies. Confidential Chats With Wives sold 52,000 copies, while Confidential Chats With Husbands sold only 29,500 copies.

Hmn? I guess a woman's sexual revelations have much more commercial appeal than a man's, don't they?

Hah! Here's something. It seems that Modern Aspect of Birth Control appealed to 73,000 readers, while Debate on Birth Control appealed only to 27,000.

I guess they didn't want to hear all the arguments, they just wanted to know how to do it.

Ah, but let's go for what they really wanted to read. Check out this figure: Prostitution in the Modern World - 129,500 copies!

As opposed to The Evolution of Marriage which sold only 20,000 copies.

Here's a strange one. Love Letters of a Portuguese Nun sold 46,000 copies, while How to Write Love Letters sold only 23,000 copies.

And Facts About Venereal Disease sold 41,500 copies as opposed to the more specific Facts About Syphilis which sold only 36,000.

O.K. that's enough sex for this month. Let's move on to the area of self-education. Just look at this difference: How to Improve Your Conversation sold 77,000 copies yet The Romance of Words only 10,500. Hmn? Hints in Public Speaking sold 46,500 copies, How to Write Advertising 20,000 copies, How to Write Book Reviews only 8,000 copies. How to Psycho-Analyze Yourself sold 43,000 while another titled How I Psycho-Analyzed Myself only 13,500. More numbers: How to Fight Nervous Troubles 39,000, Facts About Will Power 38,500, Your Memory and How to Improve It 37,000 copies, Your Talent and How to Develop It 35,500, Psychology of Leadership 32,000, How to Think Logically 30,500, Psychology of Character Building 29,000, The Conquest of Fear 27,500 and Psychology of Laughter 14,000.

Here's an illuminating statistic: How to Break Bad Habits sold 29,000 copies as opposed to How to Form Good Habits which sold only 20,000.

And another: Care of Skin and Hair sold 52,000, yet How to Take Care of Your Mouth and Teeth only 8,000.

What foreign languages do Americans want to learn most? Here they are in rank order:

Spanish Self-Taught

French Self-Taught

German Self-Taught

Italian Self-Taught

Esperanto Self-Taught

Latin Self-Taught

	47,000

46,500

27,500

21,500

17,000

10,500

What do we like to eat? Or, more precisely, what do we like to cook? How to Make All Kinds of Candy sold 45,000 copies, How to Make Pies and Pastries 29,000, How to Cook Fish and Meats 21,500 and, dead last, was French Cooking for Amateurs at 9,500.

The demand for info on proper manners always astonishes me. Back in 1927, the Little Blue Book titled Hints on Etiquette sold 72,000 copies! Less surprising, at least to me, is that Party Games for Grown-Ups sold 46,500.

What ethnic groups do we like to make fun of? Here in rank order are the stats:

Best Jewish Jokes

Best Negro Jokes

Best Irish Jokes

Best Scotch Jokes

Best American Jokes

	43,000

37,500

37,000

34,500

16,000

and, dead last,

Best Yankee Jokes with sales of 16,000 copies.

   What of the professions? These figures tell a story:

Best Jokes About Doctors

About Preachers

About Lawyers

	

25,000

23,000

21,000

Listen: I'm not going to give you the figures on poetry and the classics because my space is limited here and I doubt those marketing stats will have much practical value to many of you. The same is true of books of proverbs, fiction, plays, the classics, etc.

What is super instructive, however, is the chapter called THE HOSPITAL which is subtitled How Little Blue Books Are Given New Zest by New Titles!

Consider: When Gautier's Fleece of Gold was changed to The Quest for a Blonde Mistress, sales jumped from 6,000 to 50,000! When the title of Oscar Wilde's Pen, Pencil and Poison was changed to The Story of a Notorious Criminal, sales more than tripled! The book Patent Medicine did poorly. Yet, when changed to The Truth About Patent Medicine, sales more than tripled! Arthur Schopenhauer's Art of Controversy didn't do squat until retitled as How to Argue Logically when, thereupon, it enjoyed sales of 30,000 per year.

You already know what happened when Thomas De Quincey's Essay on Conversation was changed to How to Improve Your Conversation - but do you know why?

Of course you do. And I bet you can also guess where Sir Gary of Halbert, the Ace of Space, Prince of Print, and all round bon vivant got many of his "killer" headline ideas!

Here's a suggestion only the most dedicated (driven) among you will take to heart. Go read a copy of THE FIRST HUNDRED MILLION! You can find it in the Library of Congress and, I think, the Metropolitan Library in Manhattan. It contains much more value than I can extract for you here in these eight pages. Nothing like it has ever been written. It is where I learned my magic words. The ones that make my copy sizzle and my headlines impossible to ignore. Magic words like these:

How To

The Art Of

A Little Secret That

The Truth About

The Facts About

The History Of

The Story Of

The Key To

and many, many more.

I love this book! It contains actual costs and result figures from the N.Y. Times Book Review, N.Y. Daily News, Life, Chicago Tribune, The Saturday Review and others with dates run, size of ads and everything.

Wouldn't it be fun to get the 9/26/23 issue of Life and see Haldeman-Julius' full page ad which cost $650 and pulled in $1215.23? Hot damn! I think I know where I can get it!

I'm gone.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
AKA "He who once again
forgot to submit material 
for the Golden Mailbox         Awards"

 

P.S.	I would be more than happy to give a full lifetime subscription to the Gary Halbert Letter to anyone who can get for me (or even tell me where to buy) my very own copy of THE FIRST HUNDRED MILLION!
P.P.S.	

I'm always interested in numbers from headline tests, price test, etc. If you have any test results you'd be willing to share with my other subscribers, please give me a call. Thanks.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Why You Must Avoid People Who Are Scared Shitless!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zgll_scared_shitless.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Well, here it is Memorial Day and Clinton has us fighting a war in a country none of us ever heard of and for reasons none of us can understand.

Damn! I wish there was some way we could get Monica back on the job!

Whatever. Anyway, let us devote this issue to you making a lot of money... and... making it fast! You know usually, when someone asks me what they should do to make a lot of money, I tell them to do something... they love doing... and, the money will follow. I still think that's the best advice... but... right now... I think you should concentrate very hard on making a lot of money very fast... and...

You Should Do It
Any Way You Can!

Why? What's the urgency here? It's that Y2K thing. I'm telling you: Y2K is not going to be just another "bump-in-the-road." It is going to be majorly disruptive to the world economy and it's going to scare the living shit out of millions and millions of people. So, here's something you need to memorize. Let's call it Halbert Maxim #873:

It Is Hard To Get
People To Spend Money
When They Are Scared Shitless!

Picture this: A guy works for Xerox. Sales are down dramatically because Brazilians (Brazil is Xerox's second biggest market) and other big Xerox customers are spending so much time, money and energy trying to deal with their Y2K problems, they aren't buying any copy machines and Xerox's profits are in the crapper. What does Xerox do? Well, first off, they cut way back on their work force... and... our guy loses his job. He now joins the ranks of the "scared shitless."

He doesn't spend money like he used to. Maybe he was about to buy a new Ford pickup but, he now decides to wait. He wants to feel more secure about the future before he parts with any more of his fungolas than absolutely necessary.

And guess what? Since there are so many people in the same boat he's in, they also decide not to buy that Ford pickup or whatever else they were yearning for. So, now Ford ain't selling many trucks and cars and their sales and profits go in the toilet. They also decide to cut back on their work force and thousands and thousands more people lose their jobs... and... they too join the ranks of the...

"Scared Shitless!"

They stop spending too. This puts more companies in hot water who also have to cut back on their work force, who in turn curtail their spending, which in turn causes more people to lose their jobs. The cycle accelerates and... the phenomania of being "scared shitless" spreads like wildfire!

It is going to happen. And, it's gonna happen real, real soon.

So, I ask myself, "Self, what is the very best way for my subscribers to make a lot of money really, really fast... without too much risk... without too much investment?"

Can you guess the answer? It's the same answer that was true 50 years ago. Or 30 years ago. Or 10 years ago. Or 1 month ago. This answer will still be true next month, next year... and... throughout much of the next century! What I'm talking about, of course, is...

Direct Mail

Are you serious about making huge wads of money and making it fast? If so, forget TV infomercials, forget magazine ads, forget newspapers, forget the Internet... forget everything... but... direct mail. Listen to me Fishface: What is the most essential ingredient you must have to make a ton of moola? The answer is... dum da da dum dum...

A Reachable Pool Of
People Who Are Starving
To Spend Their Money
On Some Particular Thing!

Here is the very most important thing you can do (must do) if you want to make a direct mail fortune. If you won't do what I'm about to suggest, stop reading this letter right now, go to the 'fridge and get yourself a cold one and sit your sorry fat ass back down in front of the tube and click on "Baywatch." Best you enjoy your life now because, I predict you too, will soon be among the ever growing number of the... scared shitless!

What's that? You say you don't want to be one of the scared shitless? You say you don't have a sorry fat ass and you're sick of "Baywatch"?

Alrightythen! You be my main man and here's what you do first: You whip out your credit card and dial (847) 375-5000. This will get you through to the corporate headquarters of "Standard Rate and Data Service" (SRDS)... and... when you get them on the phone, tell 'em you want to subscribe to their SRDS Mailing List Catalog. It's updated bi-monthly and it's gonna set you back nearly $500.00.

Just do it. Bite the bullet and spend the money. There's no alternative. Do it, you silly little freak.

With me? Good! Now, what you will soon receive in the mail (and you'll get a new one every  other month) is a big, thick book that describes almost every mailing list on the market. It'll tell you the size of the list, the source of the list, a description of the list, how much the unit of sale was people on the list spent, what they spent it on and how long ago they spent it.

What I want you to do, as soon as you get the book, is take 10 or 20 hours out of your life and start reading those thousands of list descriptions.

You Will Be Amazed!

As you read the descriptions, do the math. Multiply the number of people on the list by the average unit of sale. Right now, I'm reading the masterfile list description of a company called "Select Information Exchange." Here is the description of that list:

"This is a file of individuals with an avid interest in financial topics and investment information. They have purchased (more than half via credit cards) newsletters and/or financial service products from SIE (Select Information Exchange) -- the nation's leading financial subscription agency for over thirty years.

"This proven file has been used by a multiplicity of different types of mailers with a 50% 'continuation' record. Included are banks, insurance firms, gold and silver coin companies, commodity trading firms, stock & discount brokerage firms, tax shelters, oil & gas, business, financial and investment advisory publications, collectibles, fundraisers, catalogers and credit card issues - and others.

"Space ads appear in a variety of media (i.e., Money Magazine, Barrons, Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Investors Business Daily, Financial World, Personal Investor, Better Investing). Regarding libraries, this list has the name of the acquisitions manager (the individual in charge of book purchasing)."

Let's see now. This masterfile has 2,495,000 names on it and the average unit of sale is $375.00. Lemme drag out my trusty calculator and see what that comes out to. Let's see... that's 375 x 2,495,000 which comes to uh... wait a minute... can that be right? Lemme check that again. By golly it is right! This is a list of folks who are extremely passionate about investing... and... have demonstrated that passion by spending... uh...

Over 935 Million Dollars!

And looky here! We can select them out by all sorts of ways. The men from the women. The Canadians from the Americans. The stock buyers from the options buyers from the bond buyers, the oil stock investors, the traders who buy low-priced stocks and so on. Hey, and guess what else? We can even select by what ethnic group we want. If we don't won't them all, we can say we only want the Chinese people on the list. Or the French. Or the Germans. Or Irish, Italian, Japanese, Jewish, Korean, Spanish, Greek, Polish, Scottish, English, Russian, Arabic, American and slant-eyed dwarfs. (Oh wait! I'm sorry. The slant-eyed dwarfs are on a different list.)

Amongst the thousands of mailing lists you are going to be reading about are people who bought cookbooks, people who bought model cars, sewing supplies, gourmet food, etc., etc. But, what I want you to be looking for are big lists of what I call "PWM's" which stands for...

Players With Money!

Why? Simply because (if you are offering something they want) they are the easiest and most profitable people to sell to. Also, they are the least likely to be among the scared shitless when the crunch comes. Not only do you want Players With Money, you want PWM's who have what I call a "high passion index" about something.

Like golfers.

As a general rule, golfers have above average income and, a certain percentage of them will spend literally any amount of money to take strokes off their game. Hark unto me: As you know, my friend Joe Polish has something he calls the "SuperStar Audio Tape Series" where each month he interviews some clever person on some aspect of marketing. Well, one of his most recent interviews was with a guy named Jeff Paul... and... you've got to have the tape and transcript of this interview. I think it'll set you back $14.95 or something like that and you can order it by calling (602) 858-0008. Once again, don't fight me on this. Just do it. I'm trying to save your cookies here and you're going to piss me off if you don't do as I say.

Which reminds me... I always tell women I think a man should only ask for one thing from a woman... and... if he gets that, he shouldn't ask for anything else whatsoever. When they ask me what that one thing is, I am able to explain it in one word...

Obedience!

It's odd how many women disagree with me on this. But really, that's truly all I want from a woman, all I want from the world... and now... it's all I want from you!

Back to the real world. Let me tell you about Jeff Paul. A little more than a decade ago, he was a Certified Financial Planner. He was part of a small team that offered advice and seminars on stuff like estate planning, living trusts and all sorts of other financial wisdom. The only problem he and his team had was, they couldn't get clients. So, Jeff started studying direct marketing. He put what he learned to work... and... he turned around a practice that was doing $5,000 to $10,000 a month into a practice that was doing up to... $150,000 per month. It worked so well, his partners naturally decided to abandon these crass "National Enquirer" techniques... and... they elected to go back to using the dumb-ass, stale, conventional marketing techniques they were more comfy with.

So, Jeff quit.

He decided to dump his financial planning career altogether and go full time into direct marketing. After a year and a half, he had managed to lose everything he had. He lost his house, he was $100,000 in debt on his credit cards, had no job, no income and no prospects. Jeff and his wife Peggy and their three kids ended up in his sister-in-law's basement living on a couch.

Then he made a little discovery.

As soon as he started to use this discovery, his business went from a measly $1,000 per month to $13,000. The second month he went to $26,000. The third month was $49,000. Now, he has a two million dollar a year business he runs from a 400 square foot office upstairs over his garage.

What did he discover? He discovered the only thing that matters is your market. He discovered it's the market that is the whole deal. He says, (and he's right) "You have to have people who are hungry, people who are irrational, and I mean literally irrational, that are passionate, that have money, and they're willing to spend the money. They have to have a dire sense of urgency, even desperation about something... and... they have to be reachable!"

Amen!

Then he says, "You have to find out what they want and give it to them." He says if you do this, "You don't have to fight. There's no battles. No challenges. There's no mountains and obstacles to overcome. You've made it easy, you've stacked all the deck in your favor."

Amen, again!

Jeff has sold to various markets over the years. But guess who he's selling to now?

Golfers!

Just what is he selling them? A set of golf clubs that will help them achieve a lower score. Just how much are his golf clubs?

$6,000 Per Set!

How does he sell them? With a long copy, direct mail sales letter. That's right... no pictures... no brochures... no nothing except copy.

As he points out, you couldn't do this with a rational market. Golfers are irrational. They'll play in the rain, the snow, they'll buy books, take lessons and, in general, I bet they would jump through hoops of fire if they thought it would take strokes off their game.

So, what you do first is, you get that SRDS mailing list book and read all those mailing list descriptions... and... you find yourself a moneyed group of people who are nutso enough about something to spend irrational amounts of money on whatever it is.

What next? You find or create a very expensive product for these people. Listen, since I can already hear you bitchin' about, "But gee, Gary, I don't know how to do that," I am going to figure it out for you. What you are going to sell them is information. If they want to trade commodities, you are going to provide them with very expensive info on how to profitably trade commodities. If they are horny, lonely, affluent males, you are going to offer them expensive info on how to get women. If they are golfers, you're going to sell them expensive info on how to play better golf.

Let's do golfers. What's the expensive info you are going to offer them? Simple. You're going to offer them a high-priced seminar.

But let's say you know nothing about golf. What you do is, you find yourself a personal golf pro (or maybe 5 or 6 golf pros) and you have them give the seminar. You advertise this seminar in "Investor's Business Daily"... and... you play up the fact the seminar is so expensive. Perhaps your headline will read something like this:

Florida Pro Gives
Most Expensive Seminar In
The History Of Golf!

Maybe your lead-in headline (the smaller one above the main headline) could say:

Would You Be Willing To
Pay $15,000 To Improve
Your Golf Game?

Somewhere in the copy you inform the readers this is a once-in-a-lifetime seminar, it will never be repeated and only 15 students will be accepted. You make this a one column by seven inch ad and it will cost you about 700 smackers. You tell them in the ad to call your recorded message on an 800 number you have set up with ATG Technologies. You arrange to do this by calling ATG at (800) 775-7790 and be sure to ask for Stacy Skinner.

Your recorded message is short, only a minute or two long. It reaffirms how unique this seminar is going to be and tells them to leave their name and address so you can send them full details about the seminar.

Then, of course, you send them a long copy, well-written sales letter that entices at least 15 of them to come to your seminar. Then, you collect $15,000 from each of them and put on your seminar.

Is this how you make your money? Not at all. This is how...

You Create Your Product!

See, you video and audio tape the seminar and create a written transcript of every word on those tapes. Then you get yourself a good list of golf lunatics... and... you offer this instructional package by sending out direct mail sales letters. You offer your readers a bargain. You offer the seminar tape package at only half ($7,500) of what the live attendees had to pay.

Let's do some math. Say it cost you about $300.00 (that's very high) to put together a first-class video and audio tape package. Let's say it costs you $600.00 to mail a thousand sales letters to 1,000 golfers. OK, since you make a gross of $7,200 on every sale, that means...

You Only Have To Get
One Sale For Every 12,000
Letters You Mail!

Neat formula, huh? Actually, it's a great formula. But now, I'm gonna give you a magic secret that's going to skyrocket the profits of this formula. Look, when you hear Jeff Paul talking about the golf clubs he sells, you'll hear him telling how his golf clubs really are the best in the world.

And you know what? I bet they are.

And that's important. It's also important your golf seminar (or whatever other seminar you put on) be absolutely first-class... because you're going to sell them in a unique way. Somewhere, near the end of your sales letter, you're going to have copy that says something like this:

"Listen, I know it's hard to believe the tapes a golf seminar could be worth $7,500. So how can I convince you of this? I've thought about this a lot and this is what I've come up with. I'm only  going to accept payment for these videos, audios and transcript of the seminar by check. And, I'm going to insist you post-date your check a full 30-days ahead. That way, you'll have over four weeks to watch the tapes and put those techniques to work every time you go out to play a round of golf. Then, if everything I say about these seminar tapes is not true, I will be happy to send back your uncashed check... or... you can simply stop payment on it. I've decided to do this because these tapes really are incredible and, I know you're going to love hem!"

But wait. Won't this increase your refunds? Yep, it will. It will probably triple them.

But, this technique will also triple your sales!

Let's do some more math: Let's say you are averaging about three sales for every 1,000 letters you mail and you have a refund rate of 10%. OK, you mail 10,000 letters which fetch you 30 orders. That's 30 times $7,500 or $225,000. Your mailing will cost you about $6,000 which knocks your take down to $219,000. Also, you've got to shell out $300 apiece to create and mail out 30 tapes which costs you another $9,000 which knocks your take down to $210,000. Now, let's factor in your 10% refund rate. At 10%, you are going to issue a refund on 3 of those 30 sales. That's $7,500 times 3 or $22,500 which knocks your take all the way down to $187,500.

Not bad, hey? But now let's do it with the post-dated check technique. So now, by tripling sales, you sell 90 sets of tapes instead of 30. But, as I said, your refund rate will triple also and thus your refund rate will jump to 30%. That means you'll have to issue a refund to 27 of those 90 sales. Which leaves you with a net of 63 sales. 63 times $7,500 is $472,500. Your mailout will still cost you the same $6,000 and that knocks your take down to $466,500. And, this time, you had to send out 90 sets of tapes at $300 apiece which comes to $27,000. Subtract that and all you've got left is $439,500.

Without using the post-dated technique, your profits were $187,500.

With the post-dated check technique, your profits jump up to $439,500.

That's A Profit
Increase Of 234%!

Will this technique work? Do it right and you bet your ass it will. Can you do something like this? It depends on your mindset. If you think you can do it, it will turn out you are right. If you think you can't do it, it will also turn out you are right.

Well, there you have it. As complete and detailed of a wealth-building formula as you will ever find in any newsletter. Will you do anything with this info? I don't know. It'll take time, energy, a little money... and... balls!

You got any?

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"Master of Subtlety"

 

P.S.	Damn it, I'm not getting enough "bitch" letters. Isn't there something about this issue that offends you? If so, please write me a detailed letter and tell me all about it.

Trust me, I promise to give your letter the attention it deserves.


P.S.#2	There's a guy in England named Stuart Goldsmith who writes an incredibly good newsletter. His political slant is slightly to the right of Attila the Hun but, some of his issues are priceless. There's one he wrote recently on goals which can transform your life. Whatever you do, call him and at least buy that one issue. His number is 011-44-1-189-461-246. His fax is 011-44-1-189-462-505. His e-mail is stuart@medina.demon.co.uk. His web page is http://www.stuartgoldsmith.com.

Peace. And, don't forget...

Be Nice To The "Scared Shitless"!

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## What Every Catalog Mailer Does Wrong!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/azkj_catalog_mailer.htm

Quick Note:

There are lessons throughout the following newsletter
despite being written several years ago.

Pay close attention to not just everything our pop says
and check out how he is communicating with his own
subscribers.

The lessons he outlines in the letter still apply to
catalogs but also to catalog style websites offering
a large variety of wares.

When he speaks to the reader, notice how he is
genuinely being kind, open and very human.

He could have chosen to write this letter when he
was feeling great but instead he communicates with
the subscribers, lowering their expectations to the
point where he over delivers.

All of this helps his list feel like they know like and
trust him.

This lesson is even more important today than it was
when he wrote it because people on email lists can
and will forget who you are if too much time passes
between communications.

Coming up with inspirational messages an a
regular basis is not that simple and there may be
times when you must communicate with your list
even though you are not feeling 100% or at your
best.

Being honest and offering a free gift is a great
way to keep the list warm.

Lastly, I know a lot of people are going to ask
where they can get a copy of the Robert Collier
Letter Book so here is a link and for the record,
this is not an affiliate link. It's just such an
essential reading for any direct marketer and we
are happy to point people to it.

http://www.robertcollierpublications.com

Anyway, we hope you get a lot out of this
camouflaged masterpiece.

Enjoy.

Bond & Kevin

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I don't feel much like struggling to write a good newsletter this month. I am sorry but my mind is elsewhere.

Paul Michael is dead. He died on Sunday, September 20th, of a heart attack. Paul was a force within our industry. He is credited with the invention of the "lift letter" and, as I wrote last month, when I first met him, he was producing perhaps 100 million per year in sales for Greystone Press. Paul was a large man, in both physical size and creative talent. My favorite memory of him is how he extended a hand to Norman Gold (who was also at the Jockey Club brainstorming session and who is also deceased) when everyone else (including me) had abandoned him because of his marketing ineptitude. Paul also extended a helping hand to me once, when I was very down for personal reasons I don't care to discuss. He was a fine man.

He will be missed.

And now, even if it's half-heartedly, it's best I get back to business. First off, let me say that the response to last month's letter was the heaviest and most favorable I have yet received. So many of you have sent in material to be brainstormed that I am overwhelmed. Also, a number of subscribers have said they would like to attend the session. A few of you were a little upset over the September 15th deadline. In fact, one subscriber in New Hampshire said his newsletter was not delivered until the 21st which was 17 days after it was mailed.

That's a long time to deliver a first class letter, isn't it?

So anyway, here's what I've decided to do about all this:

#1	

I am extending the deadline for submitting material. If you've got something you want brainstormed, go ahead and send it. I'll still accept it. But don't delay. Please send it as soon as you get this letter.

By the way, this extension is only for those people who have not already submitted material. The one-per-subscriber limit still applies.


#2	

I have, of necessity, delayed the date of the session itself. I have decided to start the session early in the morning on Friday the 23rd of this month and end it sometime during the late afternoon or evening of the next day, Saturday the 24th.


#3	I have decided to allow subscribers to attend free of charge.

Do you want to come? If so, I ask only one courtesy. Just call me or Paulette right away (213)273-7053 and let us know you will attend. That way, we'll be able to make sure we've booked a big enough meeting room and get enough munchies to keep everybody happy.

One other thing: a couple of subscribers who sent packages said they wanted all their info kept secret.

I'm sorry but I can't oblige. This is going to be a free-wheeling, no-limit brainstorming session and if I were to put governors on all those speed demon creative minds, the results would be dismal. The way it's going to work is that we are going to tape record every idea we come up with on all the packages and everybody who submitted a package will receive the entire tape. You never know; maybe something we come up with to improve somebody else's package will be more useful to you than the ideas we generated when we blitzed your package.

So, if you are paranoid about this, please call us so we can delete your material from the session.

Onward. Some time ago, in my promotional DM package for this newsletter, I promised I would reveal "what every catalog mailer does wrong." It is time for me to keep that promise. Listen. Many years ago, after Dennis Haslinger and I got our family coat-of-arms business cranked up, we decided to produce a catalog. It seemed like a good idea. It appeared to be a natural. You see, our front end product was an 8-1/2 x 11 piece of parchment-like paper upon which was printed a line drawing of the earliest family crest ever recorded with a particular family name. This "family name research report" also had a brief history of how that name came into being. Now, naturally, a lot of people who bought this inexpensive ($2.00) little report were fascinated, intrigued and pleased enough to want to see their family coat-of-arms in full, authentic, heraldic colors in a variety of products such as wall plaques, china plates and cups, drinking glasses, napkins, stationery and so forth.

So off I went into the woods of southern Ohio. All by myself. To camp out and to create a catalog. I worked and worked and it really turned out neat. It featured cute pictures of my three small sons (they were billed as my product testers) and approximately 70 items, most of which could be customized with your family crest. The catalog measured 5-1/2 x 11 inches and was printed on glossy stock in full color.

So after it was all finished, I had a bunch of them printed up and mailed out and I sat back to wait for the results.

They sucked. We didn't even break even. It bothered me. All that sparkling copy, all that full color printing, all those appealing (and related) products and I couldn't generate a dime in profit.

So I put on my thinking cap and I says to myself, "Hmn? I wonder what would happen if I eliminated all the loser products and then mailed either a smaller catalog or a simple brochure?"

So I did a simple analysis and developed a little report that arranged the products in rank order by sales volume. Well, what I discovered was that only three of those approximately 70 catalog products were carrying nearly all the weight. Everything else was dead meat.

Those three products, by the way, were all wall plaques. It seemed that all people wanted, as far as their family crest was concerned, was "wall-hanging recognition." Whatever. Anyway, what I did next is I designed a simple 8-1/2 x 11 color brochure that featured only those three wall plaques.

What happened? Actually, it wasn't very exciting. All we did, after mailing those brochures to our customer list, is approximately break even.

But I was moving in the right direction, wasn't I? So then, I had a brainstorm. What I did next is I took the top selling wall plaque, had a color photo taken of it, and then I sent a replica of that photo along with a personal letter to each of our customers.

And we dragged in millions of dollars!

Now listen: There is a valuable lesson here but, before I clarify it, please take a moment to read the current version of the personal letter that dragged in all that money. Here it is:

 

 

Halbert's Inc.
3699 Ira Road
Bath, Ohio  44210

C.P. Haslinger
2524 Ira Road
Bath, OH 44210

Dear Customer,

I thought you would like to see what our newest product looks like so I am sending you the enclosed snapshot. It shows my own Taylor Coat of Arms, authentically reproduced in the original heraldic colors.

We call this handsome wall plaque the "Classic Plaque." It is a beautifully designed product, measuring 14-1/2" x 17-1/2", has a walnut stained finish and a three-dimensional hand carved effect.

I am writing to make you this very special and unusual offer...

Since this is a new product we have chosen the Haslinger Coat of Arms to show off the quality of our new creation. We have made up three "Haslinger Classic Plaques" in advance for advertising and promotion purposes.

You can see our advertisement in House Beautiful featuring this plaque at $44.95. It is a bargain at that price. We don't normally have so called sales nor do we offer discounts on our products. But since we have the "Haslinger Classic Plaque" in stock and ready to ship, I'd like to offer it to you at an honest reduction and with a "no risk," full satisfaction guarantee.

So if you would like to have this plaque to grace your home, or if you are looking for a never-before-given gift for a relative, you can have it for only $34.95. And that is a full and a big 22% price reduction.

To order, you need send no money. All you have to do is simply fill out and return the order card to me in the enclosed envelope. The return envelope needs no postage.

Just one thing. If you decide you don't want the "Haslinger Classic Plaque" - even at this bargain price - would you please drop me a note to let me know. That way, I'll have a chance to offer it to someone else named Haslinger, at this special price. I hope you order this magnificent plaque, but either way it would be a favor if you let me know within 15 days.

Thank you very much for being a customer.

    Sincerely,

                   Sharon Taylor 

                    Sharon Taylor

P.S.	We regret that we have only three plaques at this special price, so we must accept orders on a first come first served basis. But remember, if you are not completely satisfied for any reason, you may return your order for a full refund or credit. Please see the order card for details.

Interesting letter, isn't it? But what is equally as interesting, in my opinion, is what all this can teach us about what most catalog mailers do wrong. Namely:

They Mail Too
Many Catalogs And
Not Enough Simple Letters!

Hark unto me. When I told Ed Mayer (the "Dean" of direct mail) about my catalog experience, he said that if everybody who now mails catalogs, would instead build an individual direct mail promotion around their top items, then, they would make a lot more profit.

I agree. But that doesn't mean I think that everyone who mails a catalog should stop. Not at all. What I do think, however, is that most catalog mailers should look at their catalogs in a different light. What I mean is that instead of thinking of their catalog as their major profit center, these mailers should instead think of their catalogs as information gathering devices.

Let's say we've got a big catalog mailer who is going to push out say, about three million catalogs next year. In my opinion, instead of sending out three million catalogs, this mailer should mail about 300,000 catalogs. Next, he should analyze his response and then create a sales letter and a simple brochure (or maybe even just a color photo) describing each of the top sellers in the catalog. Then, these should be mailed as individual direct mail promotions at about three week intervals.

Look: it's my guess that most catalogs that feature a hundred or so items, they really only make a profit on the top 20 or so items. Therefore, I believe the catalog mailer who would normally mail 3,000,000 catalogs, should mail only 300,000 and find out what his best 20 products are and then create a DM package on each of those winners and stop wasting any more money on advertising the losers.

Capice?

Now, here's some odds and ends I need to clean up:

Item #1:

	

I truly am a lousy proofreader. Paulette usually does it for me. But last month, she didn't know I was going to mention her in the letter and I wanted to surprise her so I proofread the thing myself. And this resulted in the most embarrassing and hilarious typo of my career. I'm talking, of course, about how I wrote I was going to try to "flatten your wallet" when I meant to say "fatten your wallet."

Oh brother!




Item #2:

	

One of my subscribers has sent me a copy of the book "The First Hundred Million" and thus has got himself a lifetime subscription to this letter. Well, he's found a couple more copies. They're expensive. But, believe me, they are worth it. If you're interested, give me or Paulette a call and I'll give you his number.




Item #3:

	

Speaking of expensive, Joe Sugarman is giving a four day seminar that costs $3,000 to attend. You've seen Joe's work whenever you travel by air. He's the guy who owns JS&A and he runs ads in all the inflight magazines. Joe is a legend in our business. He is an absolutely brilliant copywriter and he has a keen eye for what the public will buy. If you can, I strongly advise that you go to his seminar even though the $3,000 tuition does not cover air fare, food or your hotel room. All you get for your money is everything Joe knows about direct response.

Which is a lot!

Oh yeah, you also get to be bored for a few hours by me since Joe has invited me to be his guest speaker.

This is a very small, very private seminar and it will fill up fast. It starts on Saturday, November 28, and runs through Tuesday, December the 1st. The location is the STOUFFER WAILEA BEACH RESORT on Maui, Hawaii. If you'd like to go, call Mary Stanke right away at (XXX) XXX-XXXX.




Item #4:

	

In an earlier letter, I recommended a number of marketing books that I think have invaluable info. Unfortunately, some of those books are rare and hard to find. One of the very best marketing books of all that I recommended is "The Robert Collier Letter Book" written by Robert Collier many, many years ago. Some of the language and colloquialisms are a bit dated but the marketing insights are as valuable now as the day they were written. I consider this book must reading. I have already read it several times and I intend to read it again and again.

http://robertcollierpublications.com/




Item #5:

	

Just in case there are any nerds out there who are wondering if I am touting Joe's seminar and the above-mentioned two books because there's money in it for me, you are wrong!

I am touting these things because I passionately believe they are worthwhile.




Item #6:

	

I am not happy with this edition of my newsletter. As I said at the beginning, this month my mind is elsewhere. Not only has Paul Michael passed away, I also have a relative (my Mom's sister) who has lung cancer. (I wonder, what kind of scumbag needs money so bad that he or she will still create ads for cigarettes?) Recently, Paulette and I were on a little bitty airplane piloted by a crazy Mexican pilot (no English) who damn near ran us into several mountains. We've also recently been 100 feet under the Atlantic Ocean whereupon another pair of scuba divers spotted an eight foot shark.

None of us can really quite believe we're going to die, can we? Somehow, we are going to be the ones that magically escape the dark fate that awaits everyone else. Or at least, you and I are going to be the ones who make it to 120 and then get shot by a jealous husband, right?

Well, I don't know. What with coked-up aircraft mechanics, insane Mexican pilots, sharks, lung cancer, AIDS, heart attacks (and, today's earthquake!) maybe you and I really aren't going to beat the odds. Maybe we should, you and I, start focusing a little more on the things that really count like spending more time with our loved ones, letting our friends know they are valued and treating every living thing on this earth with as much compassion as we can muster.

Aw hell, it was just a thought.

But anyway, as I said, I'm not completely happy with this edition of my newsletter and therefore, I've decided to send it to you free.

So, for whatever it's worth, count this one as a gift as I am hereby extending your subscription for an extra month.

I hope that's OK.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.	I also hope it's ok that I can't think of a snappy title for myself this month.
P.P.S.	But don't worry. I'll come roaring back next month. I promise. By the way, I didn't let Paulette proofread this letter either so it probably contains a jillion typos.

Nuts. Like I said, it's free.

	

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Perry Marshall Interview Google AdWords

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/Newletter-archives-protected/newsletters/2009/Perry%20Marshall/Perry%20Marshall.htm

Perry Marshall gave us the latest and greatest secret for powerful Google ads.

     We recently consulted the preeminent Google adword expert, Perry Marshall for direction with the Google AD campaign for our project and he blew our minds!

During our conference call, he let us in on not one but…

Several Powerful Secrets to SUPERCHARGE
the power of Google Ads!

     He also showed us a great little trick to get up and running profitably VERY FAST.
The best part is..

We Caught It All On TAPE!

     This is the most powerful quick lesson on Google Adwords I have ever been privy to.

     Perry was gracious enough to let us record the conference call and…

Let us Share These Secrets With YOU for FREE!

Click HERE to listen to the interview NOW!

Some of you have reported trouble listening to the file, too many users at once.

You can try again later or ask me to attach the file in an e-mail kevin@thegaryhalbertletter.com

 

Wasn't that interview an eye opener, especially those two secrets he revealed at the end!

      If your marketing on the internet we strongly suggest you learn everything you can from Perry.

The link below is the best way to get started.

http://www.adwordsaddiction.com

 

Also Check Out "The Ad Boot Camp"









Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List





Copyright © 2009 Nomax Publishing Inc.  All Rights Reserved.

## Are You Guilty Of Committing These 10 Stupid Things?

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zskj_10_stupid_things.htm

From:
WAY West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Let's talk about dumb.

Once upon a time, there was a young, hot-shot advertising guy whose string of successes had made him a legend in his own mind. He had created several spectacular direct mail and space campaigns and, full of himself and his own self importance, he truly believed he could do no wrong. In fact...

His Touch Was So Deft
His Vision So Pure
He Could Make No Mistakes
Of This He Was Sure

Whatever. In any case, it eventually came to pass that our cocky, young turk took it upon himself to create a direct response campaign for a product he had never sold before. That product was a diet book. His client, completely bedazzled by this ego-driven little monster, gave him total carte blanche to create the campaign. And so, the first thing our hero did was create a full page long copy newspaper ad that positively crackled with energy and brilliance.

The third thing he did, because he was so in love with his work, is he insisted on recording the commercial himself. Here's how it went:

ATTENTION ALL FAT PEOPLE! DOES YOUR GARBAGE MAN DELIVER INSTEAD OF COLLECT AND THEN YELL "CHOW TIME!"?

WHENEVER YOU GET ON AN ELEVATOR, NO MATTER WHAT BUTTON YOU PUSH, DOES IT ALWAYS GO DOWN?

WHENEVER YOU GO SHOPPING FOR GROCERIES, DO YOUR NEIGHBORS LAUGH BEHIND YOUR BACK AND SAY, "THAT LITTLE PIGGY WENT TO THE MARKET AGAIN?"

LISTEN: FAT AIN'T WHERE IT'S AT. LEARN HOW TO GET RID OF IT. READ THE AKRON BEACON JOURNAL. READ IT TOMORROW. LOOK FOR THE PAGE WITH THE BIG HEADLINE THAT SAYS:

THE WORLD WOULD BE A BETTER PLACE WITHOUT FAT PEOPLE: HERE'S HOW YOU CAN HELP GET RID OF THEM.

THAT'S TOMORROW IN THE BEACON JOURNAL. LOOK FOR IT!

BYE PORKY.

That radio spot ran over and over just before the appearance of the newspaper ad. It was the talk of the town. After hearing that brilliant commercial, the good people of Akron, Ohio could hardly wait for the appearance of that wondrous ad.

And appear it did. The very next day. It all its glory. A full newspaper page of long, tightly written copy that told how fat people were sucking up more than their fair share of the resources of the earth. How they needed more food to feed them; more clothes to clothe them; more fuel to transport them; more medical attention; and so on. The ad also told how fat people could cure themselves of the condition of being fat by simply sending for the diet book that was mentioned (briefly) in the ad.

What a spectacular campaign! A full page ad backed by all those fantastic radio spots. Cleverness! Humor! Creativity! And, a new approach that had never before been used!

And Only Three Lousy Orders!

Yes, friends and neighbors, after all that hype and all that expense, this truly unique and spectacular campaign pulled in a grand total of three whole orders. Rather sad, isn't it? At least for the client who, on this test campaign, lost many, many, many thousands of dollars. You know, the marketing moron who created this financial fiasco did, eventually, learn a great deal about the diet market and how to sell diet books and products. Unfortunately, however, he did so at his client's expense.

Do you think that's fair? Do you think that a client should have to pay for an advertising guy's marketing education?

I don't either. Not unless the client and the marketing guy are (as is the case in the above example) one and the same person. Yes, boys and girls, the marketing moron who created that monstrosity of a campaign was none other than yours truly, Sir Gary of Halbert, The Prince of Print, The Ace of Space and all around Bon Vivant.

Who is also sometimes known as Gary Stupid: The In-print Idiot.

All of which I hope will serve to take a bit of the sting out of some of the blistering criticism that follows. Enough babble. Let's get to the meat of this letter. As I said last month, this month I am going to address the subject of:

Does Your High-Priced Ad Agency
Do Any Of These 10 Stupid Things?

Stupid Thing #1:	Blazing A New Trail 
When The Road Is Already Paved

Re-inventing the wheel is dumb. Not doing your homework is unforgivable. Finding out what has worked in the past or, better yet, what's working now is the first step that is usually not taken by an ad agency when it takes on a new account.

That's irresponsible. The first thing I do (now) when I agree to create a new direct mail campaign for a new client is review everything he has mailed before and get result figures for each of those mailings. The second thing I do is get copies of everything his competitors have been mailing and see what sales arguments and marketing themes are being repeated over and over. I am not indifferent to this information. I am no longer so sure that all my new ideas (like making fun of my prospects) will be more compelling than the tried and true sales arguments that have been working for a long time.

No. What I am much more likely to do, these days, is to concentrate on how to more effectively dramatize those in-print sales appeals that have already been proven to strike the most responsive chords. For example, let's say someone already has a marginally successful direct mail campaign for a product that is made in Japan. In that case, what I might do is get a bunch of 1-year Japanese coins (you can get hundreds of them for a dollar) and attach one of those light-weight, little aluminum eye catchers to the top of each of my sales letters and write something like this:

Dear Friend,

     As you can see, I have attached a little Japanese 1-yen coin to the top of this letter. Why have I done this? Actually, there are two reasons.

#1.	I have something very important to tell you and I  needed something to help me get your attention.
#2.	And secondly, since what I have to tell you concerns money and was discovered in Japan, I thought some little Japanese "financial eyecatcher" would be appropriate.

Here's what it's all about: etc., etc., etc.

And the etceteras, of course, are where I get into those tried and proven sales arguments, now that I've got my prospects attention!

Want to know a neat little trick that will make you look good? Of course you do. Look: Suppose you are assigned the task of writing a "killer" newspaper ad for a local furniture store. O.K. What you do is go to a big city newsstand and buy a few dozen out-of-state newspapers. Then you look through them and clip out all the furniture ads. And then, maybe in a Philadelphia paper, you'll find a great way to dramatize a furniture sale that can be replicated in some manner for your client in Chicago.

And he'll think you're a "creative genius"!

Stupid Thing #2:	

Writing Slogans 
Instead Of Long Copy

"Don't smoke. It's a matter of life and breath!" What a waste! I hate to think about how much money has been wasted on that bit of drivel. Smoking is an addiction. It's stronger (really) than heroin. Do you honestly believe that any nicotine addicts whatsoever have ever given up their habit because they heard that little jingle on the radio. Don't be ridiculous. If you really want to have even a chance at "selling" someone on the idea of giving up tobacco, you'd better use all the big guns you have. All the statistics, all the health hazards, all the benefits (improved appearance, etc.) you will enjoy when you quit and so on.

And so it is with whatever it is you are trying to sell. Listen:

It Can Never Be Too Long
It Can Only Be Too Boring.

And don't bother telling me how Abe Lincoln, when asked how long a man's legs should be, replied, "Long enough to reach the ground." It's an entertaining bit of folklore but hardly a premise upon which to build a marketing campaign.

The more you tell, the more you sell -
The more you tell, the more you sell -
The more you tell, the more you sell -

Stupid Thing #3:	

Being Remiss 
Instead Of Being 
Redundant

I'm sure you've noticed that I have a tendency to repeat myself. I make no apologies. Many readers of this newsletter (including me) do not need so much to be taught something new, as they need to be reminded of what they already know.

Remember this: You will tire of your successful DM campaigns long before your market does. It is folly to change a successful campaign in midstream if that campaign is still working. Yet, believe it or not, it happens everyday. "We need something new. Something more creative. A fresh approach."

Oh yeah, who says so? Do the numbers say so? If not, don't you dare change a winner. If you've got a winner, I want you to keep using it over and over and over until the numbers say you need a fresh approach.

Consider this: If you've got a gorgeous, sexy spouse, I bet you've been romancing that same person over and over for a long time now, haven't you? Don't you think that's a bit much? Aren't you getting a little tired of the same old whispered endearments? And aren't you getting a little tired of saying (redundantly) the same old things (like, "I love you") over and over?

Well, you'd better not stop because, if you do, your honey just might start looking around to see what the competition has to offer.

And we wouldn't want that, would we?

Stupid Thing #4:	

Being Remiss 
Instead Of Being 
Redundant

You know what? I have something else to say on this subject and I almost let it go. Can you believe that? I nearly made the same mistake I just finished describing! Which leads me to an interesting point. You know why I really write this newsletter? It's for me! You see, I've gotten sick and tired of forgetting to use what I already know and thereby, quite often, cheating myself out of big bundles of money. And so, because I've got a monthly deadline to give you my pearls of wisdom, I don't forget (so often) how to string a necklace for myself.

So, here's what else I have to say on this subject: Another way to be remiss instead of being redundant is to not tell your full story in every ad or direct mail piece. Don't ever believe that people (because of your redundant advertising) are so familiar with the benefits of what you are selling they only need to be reminded of your existence.

That's hardly ever true. Give your complete pitch every time you pay to get an audience!

Stupid Thing #5:	

Not Making 
Enough Cheap Mistakes 
After You've Got A Winner

The last few paragraphs may have led you to believe that I believe "If it ain't broke, don't fix it!" I do believe that. However, I also believe there's certainly nothing wrong with making a good thing better. And the way you do that is by testing. Now look, most of you already know about all the tests you should make that make sense. You already know you should test price. And headlines. And offers. And media. And lists. And so on.

But did you also know that, every once in a while, you should deliberately make "dumb" tests? Test that don't seem to make any sense at all? Here's an example. Hardly anyone ever runs full page direct response ads in small town newspapers because the CPM is way too high. In fact, some of those papers cost as much as $90 and more per thousand circulation and there's just no way to make your nut with numbers like that.

Or so I thought. Until I tested and found out that one of my full page diet ads would pull as much as 20 or 30 times ad cost in those little sweethearts!

Zowie! You know, it took a while but I finally figured out why those little papers were pulling so well. You see, because of their high CPM's, hardly anyone ever runs direct response ads in those papers and, consequently, when a high-tech, slam bam, DR ad does appear, it is reaching a virgin market. In fact, the appearance of one of those ads in those small papers is so rare that it is actually an event.

Sort of like taking a Broadway play to Podunk.

So, after you've got a winner, every once in a while test something that "doesn't make sense." Like a ridiculously high price. Or a ridiculously low one. Or a list from "left field." Or a triple your money back guarantee. Or letters that appear to be written by hand. Or letters with $5 bills attached to them that ask for a telephone call whether the reader is going to order or not. Or reply envelopes with live stamps instead of a permit number (this one might really surprise you). Or a totally different appeal instead of one that makes sense.

You know, once a young girl said, "Gee, why didn't you tell me that smoking makes your skin look awful? I would've quite a long time ago!" Isn't that something? This young lady's appearance was, to her, much more important than the threat of lung cancer.

And that little fact, which is also true of tens of millions of other smokers, is totally unknown to the surgeon general.

Stupid Thing #6:	

Underestimating 
Human Greed

Lurking deep within us all is a ravenous monster and that beast has an appetite that cannot be sated.

Guess what? Immediately after I wrote that last sentence, Marshall Sutton, a friend of mine, (he's a list broker), walked into my office with a mailing from Newsweek to which he was responding. You know why? It's because it offered him a savings of $83.25 off the $104.00 cover price. He said he didn't particularly want the magazine but the savings were just too real and too great to pass up.

Hmn? I wonder if that other guy I know who dates 10 women a month would be interested in one more? Could it be that that self made man who already has 10 million dollars would be interested in more money? Do you honestly believe that all those rich women in Beverly Hills would undecorously scratch and scramble to get in on a department store's annual half-price sale? Or that that customer who already subscribes to six girlie magazines would buy yet another? Or that that movie star with seven cars would even consider buying one more?

Listen: People are greedy, greedy, greedy.

Offer outrageous bargains. Offer convenience beyond belief. Provide unheard of service. Give away free TV's to everybody who buys your Cadillacs. Give rebates.

In short, when all else fails, offer bribe!

Stupid Thing #7:	

Overestimating 
Human Intelligence

Anything that can be misunderstood will be misunderstood. Explain things in baby talk. Even when you are writing to college professors or nuclear physicists. Infer nothing. Explain everything. Lead people by the hand as though they were children. Use short words. Short paragraphs. Simple English.

You know, it is my conceit that I can beat any mail control ever written. In fact, head-to-head, split-run tests, the least I have been able to improve any control over the last 14-months has been by a margin of 72%.

Except one.

Can you believe it? I, Sir Gary of Halbert, actually lost to an existing control. Well, I did and I don't like it! And so, refusing to allow this smudge on my self-image to continue to exist, I have contacted my client and asked him many, many questions. And you know what I found out? He told me that 20% of his orders are in cash and another 30% are money orders. Do you know what that means? Quite simply, it means that at least 50% of the people to whom I was writing were not even sophisticated enough to have a checking account!

So much for my $19.95 price and a few other changes I made based on the assumption that my audience was literate. Stay tuned. I'm a poor loser and, not only that, if I put my mind to it, I think I can get down to almost anyone's level.

Anyway, we'll see.

Stupid Thing #8:	Guessing What
They Want Instead Of
Asking Them

As I said in my comments under Stupid Thing #1, the first thing you should do, when trying to create a new promotion, is to see if (and how) that particular marketing problem has been solved before. But what if it hasn't? What if what you are trying to sell is some product or service that is new, that has never been sold before? Well, I'll tell you, you know what a dumb guy who works for a dumb ad agency will do? Very simple: he'll start guessing!

Guessing what appeals to use. Guessing which groups of people will most likely buy the product. Guessing what the best price will be. Guessing what features to play up; which ones to play down.

Dumb. Dumb. Dumb. When you are spending tens and sometimes hundreds of thousands of dollars of your client's money, it is irresponsible to try and "dream up" what the market will respond to. Instead, what you should really do, is go out and talk to people. Show them the new product or describe the new service. Ask people what they think. Would they buy it? At what price? What do they especially like about it? What do they especially dislike? What would make it more appealing to them?

And then, my friend, if you are a responsible person, you will build your campaign around, their answers instead of your guesses!

Stupid Thing #9:	Failing To 
Remember That People
Are Skeptical

The #1 reason for marketing failure is that people simply don't want what you are selling at all. The #2 reason is that people don't want it as much as they want the money they would have to give up for it. But, once you've overcome those first two reasons, then, the biggest joker left in the pack is that they don't believe you!

They don't believe the product will do what you say. They don't believe you will make good on your guarantee. They don't believe that you will even send the product to them. They don't believe you are honest or, that you will be around next year. Or, in a nut shell, they just don't believe you are sincere.

Here's how to overcome these concerns. First, never use a post office box, always use a street address. Always include your office telephone number in every ad or direct mail piece. Invite people to drop in and visit with you. Tell them details about where you are located like "We're right across from the street from the Burbank Public Library and right next door to City Hall." Tell people to call if they have questions and tell them who (by name) to ask for when they call. Consider allowing them to postdate their checks for 30-days. Give references. Include testimonials. Tell them the exact hours you are open. Etcetera.

Give Them Details, Details, Details!

Stupid Thing #10:	Being Too Proud
To Ask For Help

Jay Abraham has one of the finest marketing minds on the planet yet, when he isn't sure what to do, he asks me. And guess what I do when I get stuck? Very simple. I ask him! Or somebody else. Or a whole bunch of somebody elses.

Look: In spite of all the things the marketing community does wrong, it still has some of the finest minds to be found anywhere. And the very best marketing minds never trust their fortunes to the poverty of their own imaginations and intelligence. No. Believe me, at the top, there may be competition, but it is a friendly sort of competition. The very top creative people are almost always givers. They give freely of their ideas, their opinions, their experiences and so on.

So don't try and do it all yourself. Don't let false pride stop you from reaching out for help. If nothing else, pick up the phone and call me at (213)273-7053. If I can't help you, maybe I'll know someone who can.

In any case, I almost always welcome a good excuse for avoiding the process of pulling out those damn legal pads and starting to write.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
AKA (sometimes)
"The In-Print Idiot"
P.S.	Did you read that front page article in DM News in the January 1, 1987 issue? About how that guy from Connecticut got caught falsifying postal 3602 forms? I wonder if he knows a guy named Pedro?
P.P.S.	Hey listen: Are you getting tired of working for a living? Fear not. Next month I'm going to teach you how to steal.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Only Thing That Makes Any Positive Difference In Your Life!

Kilde: https://thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/azll_positive_difference.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

We're getting close!

As I write this, there's only 62 days left until we enter a brand new century. You know what else? If you knew what I know right now... those 62 days... would be... way more time... than you would need to make more than enough money to live in luxury for all the rest of your days.

I have discovered what I believe to be the easiest, most foolproof way to make huge wads of money than anyone previously has even dreamed about. It is so simple I could teach you how to do it in less than 10 minutes. It is 100 times more profitable than dealing drugs... yet... it is 100% legal. It works faster than a girl from Hooters could seduce Bill Clinton. (I just can't make myself refer to him as President Clinton.) It requires no employees, no talent, almost no investment, no thought... and... believe it or not... practically no effort whatsoever. The cash-flow from using this secret is as automatic and as consistent as sunrise. It is one of those things which is so simple and so obvious (once you know the trick) it will make you want to smack yourself in the head because you didn't see it... when... all the time... it was right there in front of you.

That's the good news.

The bad news is...

I'm Never Going To Write About
This Is My Newsletter!

Why am I being such a shit about this? The answer is simple: Remember how I said I wanted to do one last seminar before the end of this century that would go down in history as the most valuable seminar of the last 100 years? Well, this is the money-making secret I am going to reveal that is going to help me make that goal come true.

But you know something? When I think about it, I am convinced I have already given the best seminar of the 20th Century. It was held almost exactly 10 years ago in Los Angeles at the Century Plaza Hotel and it was called... appropriately enough...

The Seminar
Of The Century!

UPDATE: The Halbert Brothers
Have Uploaded The Recordings Of The Seminar Of
The Century. Get All The Details Here.

That seminar was 100% sold out and the cost to attend was $6,250. I think everyone who attended that seminar... or... has heard the audio tapes of it will agree... it was simply the best money-making seminar... ever!

Can I beat it?

Yep.

But, there's only one way: You see, the quality of the info I delivered in that 1989 seminar cannot be topped. Neither can the personalized attention I gave every attendee. I doubt there will ever be a seminar that delivers more or better ideas. So, the way I figure it, the only way I can top my 1989 seminar is to deliver a money-making secret that has... as its main claim to fame...

Utter Simplicity!

How simple is it? I'm glad you asked. If you come to this seminar, here is what will happen: The seminar will start at 9:00 a.m. on Friday, December 10th. At that time, I will be on stage and I will start talking about this special secret. At approximately 9:15 I will stop talking about this secret. Why? Simply because, there will be nothing else to tell you. Nothing more you need to learn. If, for some reason, you don't want to stick around for the rest of the seminar (it ends on Sunday, the 12th) you can walk out of the room, go home and start making money hand-over-fist just as fast as your little heart desires. It's really true; after only 15 minutes, you honestly will know everything you need to know to make this work.

One more thing: This part of the seminar will NOT be taped. The rest of the seminar (after the first 15 minutes) will be taped and, those tapes will be available for purchase. But, those first 15 minutes? No way, Jose. This dealybop is just too damn good to share with "wanna-be's." This is truly the best money-making secret (probably in all of history) and, if you want to know all about it, you now have a very clear choice...

You Can Arrange For Yourself To
Be In That Room... Or... You
Can Choose To Be Left In The Dark!

It's up to you.

All of which brings me to the subject of this month's newsletter which is directly related to everything I've just written. I am about to illuminate something you really, really need to think about. Listen: In only 365 days from today, one more year will have passed into history. No matter who you are, 365 days is all you are going to get in the next year. By the way, that comes out to 8,760 hours... or 525,600 minutes... or... 31,536,000 seconds.

Now, let's say you are rich as hell and you are willing to pay dearly to have more time in the coming year than other people. Let's say you want just 10 extra minutes and you are willing to pay one million dollars for each of those 10 minutes.

You can't buy them. They're not for sale.

You couldn't even buy one extra second... for 100 billion dollars. Time is not for sale. Not at any price. During the next year, nobody is going to have more time than you and nobody (except those who go to "Check-out City") is going to have less.

So what? Well, here is the "so what" of it: The difference from where you are right now, today... and where... you will be 1-year from today, depends on one thing and one thing only. It depends on...

What You Do With Those
8,760 Hours You've Got To Work
With In The Next Year!

What you think about isn't going to produce any change whatsoever. What you plan isn't going to create any change either. How you feel isn't going to make a difference. What you read; what you learn; what you study; what you discover... none of these things... none whatsoever... is going to make a scintilla of difference about where you are 1-year from today. Get this straight in your head: The only thing (except for pure happenstance) that is going to make any difference at all in your life... is...

What You Do!

So, what are you going to do with those 8,760 hours you've got to work with in the coming year? Actually, what you are going to do with a lot of those hours is outside your control. For example: You've almost got to spend approximately 2,920 of those hours sleeping. True, you could sleep less... but... that will almost certainly be counter-productive. The most recent research indicates the vast majority of Americans need MORE than eight hours of sleep per day... and yet... most of us get less.

Which, of course, makes us a nation of people who are sleep deprived... and... sleep deprived people suffer from fuzzy thinking, make bad decisions, and are more at risk for all types of health problems.

Whatever you do, don't try to become more productive by getting less sleep. That tactic will backfire on you. By the way, domestic housecats sleep an average of 16 hours per day and lions in the wild sleep an average of 20. It is my belief, the happiest mammals on earth are domestic housecats. As I see it, the only possible exception is a dolphin or a porpoise. (Same thing.) I live less than a mile from the world-famous "Dolphin Institute" and dolphins, like housecats, are truly happy campers.

They might be even happier than housecats. Here's why: I bet you didn't know it... but...

Dolphins Are The Most Sexually
Active Mammals On Earth!

Honest-to-God. Believe it or not, if you happen to find yourself in the ocean with a pod of bottle-nosed dolphins, you don't have to worry about them hurting you... but... they will make an attempt to screw your brains out.

I'm not kidding. Ask any dolphin expert. Hey, why do you think Flipper and all his buddies are always grinning anyway?

Pressing on: After deducting the time we need to spend sleeping, we're down to 5,840 hours to work with in the coming year. Let's say you are neither rich, retired nor retarded. That means you've got to spend a significant amount of time earning enough fungolas to support yourself and your family. To do this, let's say you work the proverbial 40 hours per week. Also, you've got to get ready for work, get to work and get home from work. Some of you have a long commute, some are lucky enough to work at home... but... I'm going to decide arbitrarily, we need to add an average of 10 hours per week to get ready, and get to and from work. Let's give you a two week yearly vacation... which means... you are going to use up 2,500 of your hours (50 hours per week times 50 weeks per year) on work-related activities.

We are now down to 3,340 hours we've got left in the coming year.

Ah, but we ain't at the end of our deductions yet. No Sir. But rather than belabor the obvious, let's make one sizable deduction for what I will designate as "Absolute Necessities of Life." This might include playing with your kids, giving time and support to your spouse and friends, brushing your teeth, shopping for groceries, getting your car repaired, shaving, taking some "down time" to let yourself recharge and so on. The time necessary to take care of the "Absolute Necessities of Life" will, of course, vary from individual to individual... but... I can't even imagine this taking anyone (who actually has a life) less than 3 to 4 hours per day so... this means... we're going to have to whack off at least another 2,000 hours from the stash of time we're allotted for the coming year.

I'm going to stop with these deductions. You've got the idea by now, don't you Boopsie?

Let us inch a bit closer to the truth: You really do not have 8,760 hours to decide what to do with in the coming year. In truth, with so many of your hours already "spoken for," you probably don't even have 1,000 "discretionary" hours to decide what to do with in the next year. That gives you something like 2 hours and 42 minutes per day with which you have to work to change your life for the better.

And, I feel certain, most of you have lives so jam-packed that... the truth is... you only have a fraction of even that small amount of "discretionary" time each day. And, I bet whatever amount of discretionary time you do have, I bet you use almost none of it to seriously advance the quality of your life. And, if you care... if you truly care... about elevating your status and achieving your goals...

This Has Got  To Stop!

You simply must use your discretionary time intelligently... or else... you don't have a rat's ass of a chance of getting anywhere that's worth being.

So, what do you do first? I'm gonna tell you but, before I do, I want to make an important observation: Many people hate it when I write newsletters like this. These readers don't want to get the fundamentals right... no... they want to skip right to the "details." But your life is already filled with details... none of which... are doing doodley squat to enhance your life. You cannot intelligently decide which details you should really attend to... unless... you are clear and accurate about what your guiding fundamentals must be.

Here's something else: Success is not complicated. It is simple. The real answers are... so simple... they are downright corny. But simple does not mean easy. Running the Boston Marathon is very simple. All you have to do is keep putting one foot in front of the other for 26+ miles.

Simple as pie. Hard as hell.

I want you to be one of the "Masters of the Millennium." I want you to achieve more in the year 2,000 than you have achieved in all the previous years of your life. That means you've got a lot of details to attend to in the year 2,000... plus... you've got to attend to the right details. I've got less than two months to help you get this in laser-sharp focus. Let's see if I can get a commitment from you. Just for approximately the next 30-days. Just from the time you read this letter and the time you read next month's. This commitment will cost you maybe $20.00 or $30.00 and will take less than five minutes of your time for each of the next 30-days.

Here's all I'm going to ask you to do: Go to a local drug store, a Radio Shack or wherever and get yourself an el cheapo, microcassette tape recorder and 30 of those little bitty microcassettes.

Keep your el cheapo recorder with you all the time and use one microcassette each day to keep a "time diary." Use it approximately once every hour of your waking hours. Your audio entries should only take seconds. They should be something like this:

"2:15 to 3:10:"	Had cavity filled by Doc Megapain.
"3:10 to 3:40:"	Drove back to office.
"3:40 to 5:30:"	Returned phone calls at work from customers with routine questions."
Etc., etc., etc.	

           

That's all I want you to do. I know, I know. You're way ahead of me. You already know what this is all about. You already know the basics of my evil scheme to change your life for the better.

Bullshit.

You don't have a clue. Please just trust me on this. All you've got to lose is $20 or $30 and a couple or three hours out of one lousy month.

All you've got to gain is everything you've ever lusted for.

Look, stop thinking you're so damn sophisticated. So damn smart. So far above doing a simple exercise like this. Let me tell you something...

You Don't Know Shit!
Give Me A Chance To Help You!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.	

      I don't think I have ever given a seminar that is more important than the one I am putting on December 10, 11 and 12 at the Phoenix Airport Hilton Hotel in Arizona... and... I have never had such a difficult time talking with people interested in coming to the seminar. I first announced the seminar in my September newsletter and I asked anyone interested in attending to call and talk with me personally. Many people called and left messages but I was able to only talk with about half of them. Then along came Hurricane Floyd which ruined (for quite some time) any communication possibilities between myself and my readers on the Eastern seaboard of the United States.

      So, in last month's newsletter, I gave out my personal telephone number so readers interested in attending the seminar could call me direct. As I explained, that phone rings right at my desk and if I am not in the office, there is an answering machine hooked up to handle the calls. Well, right after I gave out that number, we had another hurricane (Irene) that came through the Keys and made an absolute direct hit on the area where I live and work. Fortunately, Irene did not knock out the telephone system. No, instead she knocked out our entire electrical power supply.

      As if that wasn't enough, Hurricane Irene brought so much rain, the property where I was living with my aunt and uncle was literally turned into what I call "Lake Halbert." I actually have photos of myself paddling a boat in the driveway and the yard surrounding the house. My aunt and uncle occupy the top half of the house and, until Irene, I occupied the bottom half. My half of the house was completely flooded by the hurricane and we had no warning from the weather bureau this storm was going to hit us. I went to sleep one night and when I woke up the next morning and put my feet on the floor to get out of bed, I was standing in water. Many of my possessions and furniture were literally floating throughout the apartment.

      My aunt and uncle are putting their house up for sale (it's a hell of a good buy if you want to live in the Florida Keys) and I've had to vacate my portion of the house. I'm going to be living on a large houseboat (47') which I bought recently in a little town near Cape Canaveral. My houseboat was previously owned by an astronaut and he kept it in excellent condition. It's an ocean-going houseboat with plenty of living room and it even has its own washer and dryer plus a small office I'm going to use as my on-board computer room. I'm waiting for my boat to be delivered here and, until then, I am living in a motel right on U.S. 1 about half a mile from the world-famous Dolphin Institute.

      Back to the phone scenario... because of all this lousy weather, people who tried to call me at the number I gave out in last month's newsletter would just get a phone that would ring and ring and ring and never be answered because there was no electrical power to operate the answering machine hooked up to the phone. When there finally was power, everything was so flooded out and I was so busy saving what possessions I could, I often couldn't get to the office for days on end.

      So now, if you want to attend the seminar, I'm going to give you another number which also rings directly at my desk... but... if I'm not there to answer the phone, you can leave a message (one that will actually reach me) because this phone is equipped with Ma Bell's voicemail. This means if you call me and I'm not there to get the call, I'll get your message even if we should lose electrical power... or... even if we should get flooded again.

      A TIP: If you happen to live, as I do, in an area that often experiences violent weather, I suggest you get rid of any electrically operated answering machines you might be using and use voicemail provided by your local telephone company instead.

      For whatever it's worth, the last four months have produced the most consistent period of bad weather this part of Florida has experienced in more than a century. We have had almost nothing but constant hurricanes and tropical storms. I read in the "Miami Herald" we are now at the tail end of the rainy season... but... Mother Nature is delivering us one last slap in the face in the form of Tropical Storm Katrina.

      But wait. What am I saying? It ain't over till the fat lady sings and for hurricane season... that's not until November 30!

      Well anyway, if you haven't signed up for the seminar and you'd like to attend... but... you'd like to speak with me first, here is the new number for you to call...

                         (305)289-7798

      If you're interested, please call soon because... there's not much room or time left. I just want to be fair and give all my readers an opportunity to talk with me if they have questions.

      Now, if we can just keep Lenny, Maria, Nate, Ophelia, Philippe, Rita, Stan, Tammy, Vince and Wilma (the rest of the 1999 hurricane names just waiting for a storm to attach themselves to)... if we can just keep these bastards out of our hair... perhaps... we can... maybe... make a couple of staggering steps in a forward direction.

Peace.

The Seminar
Of The Century!

UPDATE: The Halbert Brothers
Have Uploaded The Recordings Of The Seminar Of
The Century. Get All The Details Here.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright ï¿½ 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Deal With

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zsza_nightmare_clients_alec.htm

From:
WAY West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Most of the issues of my newsletter over the last twelve months have been a virtual course designed to teach you how to write "killer" copy.

You can use that information in a number of ways: (1) If you don't want to do copywriting yourself, having that information will help you make a more intelligent decision when it comes to hiring an outside copywriter. (2) If you have a business and for some insane reason, want to do all your advertising yourself, you can also use that information to help you with your goal. (3) If you want to work as an in-house or freelance copywriter for some giant corporation, you should now have all the information you need to jump start your career.

However, if it is option #3 which interests you, there is something else very important you need to learn. What I'm talking about is...

How To Deal With "Nightmare Clients"!

There are a number of ways you can do a lot of work for a client and not receive money for your efforts. The first way to do this is, simply to write an ad or a series of ads which don't generate a profit. Every copywriter in the world... no matter how great he is at his work... will always write a few ads that don't generate a profit.

Back in the old days, when I used to have the time and inclination to take on new clients, my standard fee was an up-front payment of $15,000 plus 5% of all gross revenues I was able to generate for that client. I could have gotten much more than $15,000 up-front from many of my clients however, I didn't feel right about it. You see, in my mind, if a guy paid me $30,000 or $40,000 up-front to write an ad for him... and... if my ad failed to generate a profit, it would create such a feeling of guilt and be of such an emotional cost for me, it would be too much of a burden to carry around.

On the other hand, charging anything less than $15,000 up-front would have been foolhardy on my part. Why? Simply because I can always be guaranteed many times that amount of money by putting my efforts into writing a good sales letter to my own in-house proprietary mailing lists.

By the way, my deal with clients also stipulated, if my original ad failed to work, I would write a second ad. If that second ad failed to work, I would write a third. After that, we'd call it quits and the client would be out $15,000... and... I would be out an enormous amount of research, time, energy and work I could have spent elsewhere.

The few times my ads have failed to work, it was almost always because the client was trying to sell something the public didn't want to buy. Honestly though, there were times I just couldn't come up with a piece of copy which would make everything work. Like I said earlier, it happens to everybody. If you choose copywriting as your career... I want you to know... it will also happen to you.

As far as whatever fees you decide you want to charge your clients, that's a personal matter you should put a lot of thought into.

Now, let's discuss the second way you can do a lot of work for a client and still not make any money. In this case, let's say your ad works like gangbusters... yet... your client doesn't have the balls nor the brains to exploit your creative work to anything close to its money-making potential. Clients like this are simply scared people who should be working at McDonald's instead of trying to be an entrepreneur. They will take a winner and before they roll it out, they'll want to make dozens of nonsensical tests. Blue ink versus black ink. A stamped reply envelope versus one with a postage paid insignia. Yellow paper versus white. Etc., etc., etc. When this happens, you are guilty of...

"Casting Pearls Before Swine"!

The third way you can do a lot of work for a client and still not make a lot of money is, you write a runaway winner for a client, he exploits it fully... but... he doesn't pay you for your work. This is simple theft.

A slightly more sophisticated version of this type of theft occurs when the client makes a few cosmetic changes to your ad, then says he is running "his" ad instead of yours and thus, he says he owes you no commissions.

If you are seriously considering becoming a copywriter, you're almost guaranteed to run into at least one of these three scenarios... if not all three.

I am now going to reveal to you the worst client I've ever had in my career. This man could be a poster child for what I like to think of as a "Nightmare Client." A little later in this newsletter, I'm going to describe in detail the nefarious, dysfunctional and stupid ways in which this man conducts his business. However, I want to start with his name... which is...

Alec Jone

As I said, I'll tell you all about "Mr." Jone a few paragraphs later in this newsletter. Before I do that, I'd like to give you a few general tips on how to prepare yourself to deal with a Nightmare Client like this particular dumb ass.

Tip 1: Make Yourself 100% Judgment Proof.

Exactly how to do this is outside the scope of this newsletter. If you do a little research, you will find it is easy-as-pie to make yourself "bullet-proof" from lawsuits, counter-lawsuits, alimony payments, etc. You know what I would do if you sued me for a lot of money? I'd probably not even show up for any of the hearings. That means an automatic Judgment would be awarded in your favor. At that point, you would be free to take every action provided by law for you to collect on the Judgment you had against me.

After you spent a considerable amount of your time and money trying to collect from me (while I, on the other hand, spent my time working on my tan and laughing at your efforts) you would sooner or later discover you had embarked on an utterly useless endeavor.

Tip 2: Learn To Wear A Wire.

99.9% of the time, I do not bother to record the conversations I have with clients and other people. However, once I sense a client is less than ethical, I make it a point to wear a hidden recording device on my body to capture all of our private, face-to-face conversations. I also make it a point to record all phone conversations with clients I suspect are unethical.

Tip 3: Learn The Law.

A little-known fact about me is I attended law school. Because I had no intention of ever becoming an attorney, I never graduated with a degree. I just wanted to know the true ins-and-outs of litigation so I could keep myself from being financially sodomized by dirt-bag attorneys and other people.

Now that you know the basics of how to pave the way of dealing with a Nightmare Client, I'd like to give you my real-life story about how I am dealing with Alec Jone, the worst client I've had in my 30-year career.

Let me begin by telling you how I happened to get involved with him. Shortly before my December 10, 1999 seminar, I received a telephone call from a young woman who wanted to desperately to attend. She had a problem in that her boss (Alec Jone) was only willing to pay one-half the tuition price. I hate discounting fees to attend my seminars or other services... still... she seemed so genuinely eager to learn, I made an exception. I allowed her to attend at half the price the other attendees had to pay. This, by the way, as you shall soon see, is further evidence of the axiomatic truth...

No Good Deed Goes Unpunished!

Anyway, when I met this young woman at the seminar in Phoenix, I was enchanted. Neta Friedman was this very captivating, young, blond woman with a sparkling personality as well as a very sincere desire to learn the business of direct marketing. One thing led to another and eventually, she convinced her boss to hire me. She also persuaded me to take Alec as a client and accept the copywriting job.

The initial piece of work I did for them was to write an ad for a diet product which was supposedly blood-type specific. I had misgivings about the efficacy of such a diet but, they had their in-house "doctor" (Alfred Schwingner) speak with me and inform me of all the reasons this was a valid diet.

I wrote the ad... and... the ad bombed.

For one thing, this particular diet required the prospects to know their blood type. Many people think they know their blood type... yet... they are not sure enough about it to spend money to buy a diet product without first checking with their doctor. They want their doctor to confirm whether or not their blood type is, in fact, "O," "A," "B," "AB", or whatever. This obviously created an ordering delay... and... in direct response advertising...

Delay Usually Translates
To The Death Of A Sale!

In an attempt to overcome this obstacle, Alec's corporation, Nutcasebizz, Inc., then decided (in their infinite wisdom) they would sell their customers a plastic fork-like device. The customers could use this gadget to jab themselves in the ass or wherever and then, use it with the test kits they were provided to determine with accuracy their own blood type. Needless to say, this was one of the most idiotic ideas ever conceived by a marketer... and... it didn't work.

Since my guarantee is once a client has paid the $15,000 up-front fee for my services, I will make at least three attempts to write a home-run ad for their product... and... since my first attempt failed, Nutcasebizz wanted me to write a second ad for this blood-specific diet. I didn't want to write another ad because I felt (and I still do) there wasn't any kind of ad that could be written by anybody which would convince people to buy this type of looney-tunes diet product. Still, I didn't want to leave my client high and dry.

So, I suggested to Nutcasebizz, rather than write another ad for this blood-specific diet product, I write a brand-new ad about a different product. I offered to fly to New Jersey to do this for them without receiving any extra payment whatsoever, if they would simply pick up my airfare plus hotel expenses. Nutcasebizz agreed to this.

I flew up north and walked into their corporate offices. This was the most insane, dysfunctional group of people I have ever met. Immediately, I reiterated to Alec, I found it hard to believe the blood-specific diet was actually valid. He told me "Doctor"  Schwingner had tested the product and assured him it was truthful. I asked to speak with the doctor one-on-one and was put in a room alone with him.

My opening words to him were, "Tell me about this blood-specific diet."

He replied, "It's a fraud. It doesn't work. We thought maybe it would at the beginning. Even though we continue advertising it, we've since learned it's invalid." (NOTE: It is exactly at times like this I find it invaluable to be wearing a hidden microphone on my body.)

Shortly thereafter, I relayed the doctor's comments to Alec who affected mock surprise and allowed as how maybe we should work together on a different product.

We began by assembling the staff of Nutcasebizz in a room with me so I could ask them questions. These people all had the attention span of a gnat. They couldn't focus on anything for more than 10-seconds at a time. We were constantly interrupted by phone calls, people knocking on the door asking what we wanted for lunch, Alec's wife (Monikah) scared to death something was happening she didn't know about, and other endless and aggravating disruptions. This came to a screeching halt when I lost my patience and started screaming at everyone in the room. I told them if this didn't stop immediately, I was going to the airport to head back to Florida. At that point in time, they began to pay attention to me and start taking notes.

Upon my arrival at Nutcasebizz, they had regarded me as some kind of eccentric "Willy Nelson-type guy." However, before I left, they were taping every word of advice I was giving them and even raising their hands to ask permission to go to the bathroom.

Prior to my returning to Florida, I had created a brand-new ad for a different product. It seemed to me this was a "clean" ad which would be profitable. Their in-house legal department questioned a few of the statements I made in that ad. I simply reminded them I only used statements which had already been cleared and approved by them in their own previous ads. That shut them up and they proceeded to test my ad.

This ad was a run-away winner. I had hit the ball out of the park for them. For every $1,000 Alec and Nutcasebizz were spending on advertising, they were getting $5,000 or $6,000 back on sales. This doesn't even count all the back-end profits they should have made from these customers.

I went home a tired but happier man.

Soon after, I realized my commission checks were always late... furthermore... they seemed to be short-changing me. When I asked Nutcasebizz about this, they told me they were too busy running my ad and taking the orders to take care of other matters like their accounting and sending me my full commission checks. Needless to say, I was a very unhappy chappy about all this and at that time, I made my displeasure known. I asked them to send me a commission check twice a month instead of just once a month, which they agreed to. For a short period of time, they did send me the semimonthly checks... however... they were still short-changing me.

I know this to be true because the ad was pulling 5 or 6 to 1 and their so-called 5% commission checks didn't even amount to 5% of the money they were spending on advertising... let alone... the 5% on gross sales I was entitled to receive.

I'd like to take a side trip which will illustrate the dysfunctionality of this company...

Alec Jone has his wife, Monikah, working for the company. Perhaps she has some invisible utilitarian value to the company. If so, whatever it is, it totally escapes me. As far as I could tell, Monikah is a very attractive woman who suffers from what used to be called "Stewardess Syndrome."

Years ago, airline stewardesses had to be registered nurses with an outgoing, friendly personality with drop-dead good looks. These stewardesses would socialize and often party with the pilots. Occasionally, a stewardess would get one of the pilots to marry her. Afterwards though, she would sit at home and worry her pilot-husband was doing with the other stewardesses what she used to do with the other pilots. She would become jealous, over-protective and paranoid. In my opinion, that exactly describes Monikah Jone. I think the only reason she works for Nutcasebizz is "to protect her turf."

Did I mention Neta is Monikah's sister? Although both of them are drop-dead good looking, Monikah is extremely threatened by the fact Neta is 10-years younger. Monikah is constantly accusing Neta of having sex with Alec.

Situations like this are not only ugly, they also have a very adverse effect when you are trying to run a profitable business. For example, we were going to use "before-and-after" photos of Neta in the second (the winning) ad I created for Nutcasebizz. Neta had gained an enormous amount of weight during her pregnancy and she said she lost that extra weight after the birth of her baby with the help of Nutcasebizz diet products. Even though those pictures were perfect for the ad, it turns out we were "forbidden" to use them.

Why? Because Monikah said she somehow felt these photos would cast an improper image of the company. When Monikah was reminded she herself used to enter (and win) bikini contests on a regular basis... she said that was different. I didn't get it then, and I don't get it now. How could using modest photos of her sister in a "before-and-after" diet ad possibly be negative for the corporation?

What I think though is, Monikah is one of those sad people who has relied on her looks all her life to get what she wants. Now that she's "a little longer in the tooth," she is very frightened by younger women... especially... her own sister whom she feels has eclipsed her in physical beauty. It is indeed a sorry situation when a man or woman has nothing else in their "tool kit" for getting through their lives than their physical appearance.

Unfortunately, this obsessiveness about relying on physical appearances has rubbed off on Neta. This mindset caused her to have a completely unnecessary surgery to enhance the size of her breasts. Not to be outdone, you can be sure if she hasn't already, Monikah too will soon have a boob job... and... unless I miss my guess, an unnecessary face lift and other cosmetic surgeries.

It all makes me sad. Monikah and Neta both are extremely attractive women. Unfortunately, it's men like Alec who make them feel so insecure, these women believe they have to resort to any means possible... to be attractive enough... to deserve these assholes' attention.

Not only does Alec have his wife working for him, he also has his brother working for the company. His brother has his girlfriend working for the company. Now try to follow this: While I was in New Jersey, the brother's girlfriend registered a complaint about Neta to the effect Neta was trying to seduce her boyfriend (Alec's brother). This was based on Neta's supposedly flirting with Alec's brother during a meeting which I attended.

Even though Neta was dressed very conservatively at that meeting, supposedly, when she leaned across the table to pick up some papers or something, it was possible to see a 1/4 inch of her bra strap where it crossed one of her shoulders. I can assure you Neta was in no way flirting with Alec's brother or in any way trying to seduce or titillate anyone. The fact of the matter is, she's a very hard-working individual and the most valuable person who works for Nutcasebizz. Neta's efforts have been Herculean in trying to make Nutcasebizz a profitable company... despite the fact... she has to work with a group of people jealous of her appearance (and ability) who moronically try to thwart her efforts at every turn.

Unfortunately, by this time, I had introduced Alec to some of my most important contacts in the direct response business. I was embarrassed I had done this since none of my colleagues much liked working with a man who can't focus on a conversation for more than 20-seconds without allowing himself to be interrupted. They've told me Alec is constantly paying his bills late, changing ad schedules, making unnecessary and foolish revisions to the ad copy, asking idiotic questions, besides being an all-around aggravation for everyone who works with him.

Now that you get an idea of how truly dysfunctional Nutcasebizz is, let's get back to the issue of my commissions.

Alec said he received a couple of letters regarding the new diet ad from Attorney Generals in two different States. Anyone who runs any type of diet ad knows these types of letters are routine. Since Alec didn't know what to do, I gave him the name of one of the most competent and hard-boiled attorneys with which I have ever worked.

This attorney scared the living shit out of Alec. What he did was analogous to comparing Alec's business with someone attempting to drive a car from Los Angeles to New York.  Yes, it's true you could get lost in a bad part of town, or your tires could explode, or you could get in an accident. All of these are things which could happen... and thus... a trip like this should not be undertaken by someone who drives as incompetently as Alec runs his business.

At that point, Alec panicked and stopped running the winning ad I had written for him. This is the outcome I had hoped for. You see, the "alphabet agencies" don't scrutinize newspapers extremely carefully looking for ads which are fraudulent. They're too busy for that. These agencies are like cops and only respond to complaints. Cops don't go door-to-door asking homeowners if they've had any problems recently. No, police are too busy to respond to anything except the "squeals" which come across the radios in their patrol cars. But the ad Alec was running was generating a lot of complaints. Mostly because he didn't have competent people to answer the phones, answer the customers' questions or, ship the product on a prompt basis.

I simply wanted Alec Jone to completely get out of the direct response business. I thought it would be a good thing for all concerned if he remained in the sleazy occupation he was in before meeting me. He was a "hypnotist" who ran around the country screaming at people during his seminars who supposedly hypnotized them into giving up smoking and losing weight. There may be an exception but, just for the record, I have never met a hypnotist, with a shred of ethics. This business of Alec's had generated (even before I met the man) all kinds of flack from Attorney Generals in States like Rhode Island, Texas, Pennsylvania and others too numerous to mention.

Since he couldn't stop all the ads from running which were already scheduled, I asked Alec what he was going to do about the residual orders still coming in from those magazine ads and other publications. His answer was simple: He was going to keep the money from all those orders... however... he was not going to pay me my commissions. Take note boys and girls: In actuality, if the ad wasn't "clean" (as Alec claimed)... then... he should have simply returned all the orders he received from that ad. In that case, I would have felt fine about him not paying me my commissions.

I told Alec if he was going to keep the money from these orders and not pay me my commissions, he was going to have to deal with me in court. He replied, 'fine, go ahead and sue me. You'll win the lawsuit but, it will delay me from having to pay you for a considerable length of time.'

Good Sirs and Fair Maidens, this moron kneweth naught with whom he dealteth.

I'm suing him alright but, not for any commissions he owes me. No, Step 1 in handling a Nightmare Client is...

Suing For Civil Fraud!

The FDA, FTC and Postal Authorities are going to be watching my civil lawsuit against Alec like hawks. You know how O.J. won the criminal lawsuit against him but lost the civil one? That's because the lawyers did it backwards. Let me explain: A civil lawsuit is far less restrictive in what information you can force the defendant to give you... than... what you can obtain in a criminal lawsuit. So, if you first bring out all the negative shit in a civil case, it makes winning a criminal case a slam dunk... because... you have all those nasty, negative facts you obtained in the much more liberal atmosphere of civil litigation.

If you've read my book, How To Make Maximum Money In Minimum Time, and have read the chapter entitled "The Dark Side Of Success" you have probably figured out the various "alphabet agencies" would love to have me work with them. I very seldom choose to do this. I don't like snitching anyone out... even if they deserve it. Although in some cases, people are so blatantly evil and dishonest, I will help the authorities put them away.

For example, there's a guy named Frank Sarcone, who never made $60,000 a year until I started working with him. When my commission checks reached the level of $126,000 per month, Frank decided to stop paying me. This decision was based on the advice of his business manager who, at that time, was his live-in girlfriend. She has since bankrupted him and Frank has now been forbidden by the powers-that-be to ever work in the direct response business again. But, you know what? Frank lives undercover in the Fort Lauderdale area and is operating a direct response business using some brain-dead loser as a "front." The authorities are soon going to learn this and incarcerate him. Any ideas on how they are going to get all this inside info? You be right... Sir Gary of Halbert is going to see they have it.

Another guy in Texas (John Polk) hired me to write an ad for him featuring Ronnie Milsap, the country singer. I thought John was going to be running the ad in newspapers and use it in a direct mail campaign. That wasn't how he used it at all. No, what he wanted was to brag to people in multi-level marketing meetings they should join him in his MLM scam because he had secured the services of the world's best copywriter. This made me livid. Where do you think John is now? He's serving out a six year term in a federal prison in Texas. Want to take a stab at who put him there?

My guess is (because a little bird told me) Alec Jone is also going to wind up incarcerated. In my opinion, he's not going to do too well during his imprisonment. He talks and acts tough... yet... he's nothing more than a loud-mouth, New Jersey street punk and I would venture to say by the time he serves his sentence, his asshole will approximate the size of the Holland Tunnel. Prisons are not populated by women, relatives and employees who will eat shit from people like Alec. Prisons are populated by real, hard-core, tough guys who, I surmise, will have him wearing lipstick, bras, panties and dresses in record time.

Proceeding with Step 2 in dealing with a Nightmare Client...

Turn Off The Money Spigot!

To do this, I am sending a certified letter to newspaper space banks, standby ad placement agencies, print media sources and the like. My letter will inform each of them Alec Jone is continuing to run a suspect ad, of the forthcoming civil and criminal proceedings, along with the fact if they continue to run ads for him, they will do so at the risk of having to deal with a conspiracy indictment filed against them.

Because Alec also has his own (incompetent) in-house advertising agency, I am writing a separate letter to every newspaper in the SRDS telling them about Alec and why they should not accept any of his ads.

Is there another step in dealing with Nightmare Clients? You bet your bippee there is! Step 3 is...

Piercing The Corporate Veil!

Alec probably thinks because of his "corporate veil" his personal money will be invulnerable. Little does he know his corporate veil is going to be pierced in a micro-second... and therefore... he is going to be drained of not only all his business money... but also... he'll be drained of all his personal assets.

Does all this sound a little over the top to you? Do you think maybe I'm overreacting? If so, let me tell you of a stomach-turning event which occurred to me about 2-1/2 weeks ago.

I'm sitting in the salon of my houseboat, drinking a cup of coffee and reading the Miami Herald. I turn the page... and... lo and behold... there is almost word-for-word the exact ad I had written for Nutcasebizz! You guessed it, the very same ad Alec said he wasn't going to be running any more. There were a few cosmetic changes but, I bet if you put that ad side-by-side with my ad, you'd be hard put to find those changes.

This Nightmare Client of mine is a thief, a bully and a simpleton... all rolled up into one.

I intend to pound this man completely out of the direct marketing business. I don't care if he's selling hypnosis seminars, diet products or Bibles. I don't care what company names he uses or how cleverly he attempts to disguise the fact he is running these businesses. I have two detectives watching every move he makes. And every time there is an opportunity to thwart him, I will be there to do it for all the rest of his days.

Do you think I like doing this? Actually, I hate it. I would much rather help people than hurt them. But Alec is a loud-mouth bully who hires doctors who really aren't doctors, incompetent attorneys... and... wives, relatives and other family members who he abuses with impunity. If the law allowed it, I'd simply take him out in an alley to beat the living shit out of him. Of course, it's not legal so, I'll do the best I can with other methods.

To prove to you I only take this kind of action as a last resort, I will tell you what else I did recently. Since Monikah and Neta are directly involved, I sent a multi-page fax to each of them. I wanted to give them the opportunity to see how this situation could be resolved quickly and peaceably. You know what? Neither of them has even bothered to acknowledge the terms of that fax. Maybe it's because Alec or his bullshit "corporate counsel" didn't want them to see the fax so, they didn't give it to them. Or maybe it's because Monikah and Neta don't understand how real and immediate this situation is.

Oh well, I tried.

                   

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.	Alec and his attorney have tried to make the point they relied on me to write a clean and honest ad for them and, if anything goes wrong, I too will be liable. That's utter bullshit. True, some copywriters get indicted along with their clients... however... those copywriters are partners with their client. Me? I'm not Alec's partner and, in fact, I don't even get paid for the work I did for him.

Secondly, holding a copywriter or an advertising agency responsible for the claims made in an ad would virtually stop all advertising in America. How so? Suppose a client came out with a new car and asked a copywriter to write an ad about it. This client told the copywriter the car gets 51 miles per gallon, has 265 horsepower, and will go from 0-to-60 in 4.5 seconds. Is the copywriter or the advertising agency supposed to test this car somehow and figure out if it really does have 265 horsepower or if the other claims about the product are true? No, of course not.

It is he who publishes an ad who is responsible for the claims in the ad.

Alec's corporate counsel sent me a memo of how he "reluctantly" approved my ad. That's like saying he "reluctantly" agreed to drive the get away car after his comrades robbed the bank. With that statement, Alec's corporate counsel is now going to join Alec, Monikah, Neta and the good doctor in being sued and indicted. These people are truly crazy.


P.S.#2	Anyway, I hope for those of you who decide to become copywriters, you have gotten some useful ideas from this newsletter on how to handle "Nightmare Clients."

Peace.

*The story is true but some of the names have been changed.* 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Get AS Much Money As You Need To

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/a_roll_out_money.htm

From:
W-a-y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

       My newsletter goes out all over the world. Many of my subscribers are extremely successful and many of them have enormous amounts of money.

       These people are in contact with me on an almost daily basis and they are always asking my opinion on different areas of their business activities. Sometimes they want my opinion on a person they may or may not decide to hire. Other times they want to know if I think their current marketing campaign could be improved. Often, they send me their ads and sales letters for critique.

       And so on.

       However, one of the most common questions I am asked is if I know about any new and tested ideas in which they can invest money.

       Now, let me tell you something: If you have a totally unproven idea you are "hoping" will work... then... I probably cannot help you. On the other hand, if you have an idea you have tested with good results... then... my friend, I may be able to direct you to one or more people who may very well be willing to totally finance your business in return for a share of your profits.

       Look, testing you ideas will cost you some money. However, when you read Section 5 of this report, you will learn how to test an ad in a daily newspaper at the lowest possible cost. And, if you are a real hustler, you can use the info in Section 9 to mail thousands of sales letters virtually free.

       Besides that, if you decide to test your idea via "conventional" direct mail, it should only cost you $1,500.00 or so if you are willing to do most of the work (addressing, sealing, stuffing, etc.) yourself. So anyway, once you do your test and you have actual numbers, then, here is what you do. You write me a letter something like this:

 

Dear Gary,

       Some time ago I had an idea for selling a report my wife wrote on "How To Lose Weight Without Starving" and I wrote a newspaper ad offering her report for sale. I ran the ad in the "Podunk Daily News" which has a circulation of 53,000 and the ad cost me $1,200.00 for a one-time insertion.

       I priced the report at $12.00 plus $1.50 postage and it costs me about $3.50 to fill an order. Therefore, every order yields up $10.00 in "contribution to overhead." My ad pulled in 220 orders for a total gross of $2,970.00.

       At $3.50 to fill an order it cost me $770.00 to fill all my orders. Therefore, my total costs ($770.00 to fill orders and $1,200.00 to pay for the ad) were $1,970.00 which, when subtracted from my gross of $2,970.00 left me a bottom-line profit of...

$1,000.00

       Please let me know if you know anyone who would be interested in funding this project for a share of the profit.

                                         Sincerely,

                                         So & So
 

       O.K., as soon as I receive such a letter from you or someone else, what I do is, I immediately put the word out to my network of potential investors and usually there is some very fast action!

       Think about it and, if you ever need funding to promote your proven ideas, I welcome your call.

       By the way, my number is...

1-305-534-7577

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Get The Exact Name And Address Of Every Man, Woman, And Child Who Is Ever Likely To Become One Of Your Customers!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/a_exact_name_mailing_lists.htm

From:
W-a-y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend and Subscriber

 If you learn how to use direct mail properly, the results can be so amazing, it may take your breath away!

 I'm not kidding. Here's an example: Once upon a time, I wrote a simple, one-page letter that sold "family name research reports" which told you about the history of your surname and some facts (including a drawing) of the earliest known coat-of-arms recorded with your surname. Now, would you care to guess how many cash-with-order customers I got from that one-page letter? It's really quite astonishing... because... I sold those little reports to...

7,300,000 Different People!

      All from a simple, one-page letter. Isn't that something? By the way, it took more than 40 people just to make the bank deposits because, often, we'd receive more than 20,000 checks in a single day.

      So, as you can see, if you use direct mail... and... do it right, it can really pay off!

      Now, as far as doing it right is concerned, the most important element of all is the mailing list. It doesn't matter how attractive your offer or how brilliant your sales letter if you mail to the wrong list, you're going to flop.

      What mailing lists should you use? Well, that depends on what kind of business you're in. If you've got a business like a restaurant, a hardware store or some other kind of retail establishment, your choices are pretty much obvious... because... what you need is simply the names and addresses of everyone who lives in your trading area. In other words, what you need is a "resident" list.

      A list like this is every easy to obtain. Actually, if you live in a fair-sized city, it may very well be as easy as looking under "Mailing Lists" in the yellow pages of your telephone book. Here in Los Angeles, for example, there are 31 entries under mailing lists in the Pacific Bell Business-to-Business yellow pages. One of these companies is called "Mailing Lists of Southern California" and their number is (800) 352-7450 and they have the name and address of almost everyone who lives in southern California and you can order them by Zip code.

      You can also specify if you want homeowners only or apartment dwellers only. You can get the names of all the chiropractors, all the nurses, the real estate brokers, tax preparers, optometrists and many other types of occupations. You can also order all the boat owners, business owners (by category) and almost any other selection your little heart desires.

      Here's an example of how you can use these mailing lists. Let's suppose you own a restaurant. Well, what you could do is order all the names and addresses of all the 6,486 dentists in southern California and send them a letter like this:

Dear Friend,

      I am writing this letter to you because you are dentist.

      My name is John Jones and I own "John's Restaurant" here in Anytown, and I have decided that every day next month, I am going to serve free wine with every meal to every dentist who comes in for dinner. Want to know why? It's a very unusual reason and, if you'll ask me about it, I'll tell you when you drop in.

      Sincerely,

      John Jones
      Owner

      Now, why are you offering a "dentist's special" for your restaurant? I don't know. Maybe because your daughter married a dentist and she didn't end up marrying that Padagonian pygmy you were worried about. Maybe because a dentist did something to save you from periodontal disease. And, if this approach works, why not have a special for insurance agents, or accountants, or architects, and so on?

      This is an example of "customizing" your advertising to a specific group. You can also customize it by geographic area, by boat owners or what have you.

      Now, listen: If there aren't any companies under "Mailing Lists" in your phone book, all is not lost. You see, there are two big national companies who also have the name and address of nearly everyone in your geographic area. So, if you don't luck out with a local company, you should call either R. L. Polk & Company at (404) 447-1280 or Donnelly List Marketing at (203) 353-7385.

      By the way, these last two companies can also select by make, year and model of car. Do you know what that means? Just this: It means you can also have a "Ferrari Special", a "Chevy Special", a "Ford Special" and so on.

      O.K., what we've been talking about so far are compiled lists. Another type of list is known as a "buyers list." This type of list is usually much more responsive but, often, it is not regional in nature. A "buyer" list, for example, might contain all the names of the several million people who bought a certain diet product in the last few years. Or, it could be a list of people who have bought books by mail, tools by mail, etc.

      There are two primary sources that have info on these types of lists. The first is the Standard Rate & Data (SRDS) List Book. This is a huge book containing a description of literally thousands of different mailing lists. Your library should have it (ask for SRDS Direct Mail Lists Rates and Data) and, if they don't, you can call SRDS direct at (312) 256-6067.

      By the way, I strongly suggest you get a copy of this publication (it's being updated all the time) and spend about 20 hours just reading all the various listings.

      Believe me, it will really open your eyes!

      The other source for those names, is your handy, dandy list broker. A list broker works very much like a real estate broker except his product is names and addresses rather than homes. Once again, your phone book is the first place you should check to find a list broker in your city. If there aren't any in your local area, I suggest you go to your library and see if they have, as many libraries do, the phone books from major cities all over the country. If they do, then simply check under "Mailing List Brokers" in the yellow pages of the phone book of the largest city near you.

      And, just for instance, I'm going to give you here the names and phone numbers of five list brokers in different parts of the U.S. Here they are:

      1. Los Angeles - Thulin Communications, Inc.
         Jim Thulin at (213) 930-1919

      2. New York - The Specialist
         Shelly Newman at 212 677-6760

      3. Chicago - Aggressive List Management, Inc.
         (312) 577-4455

      4. Oklahoma - Direct Media, Inc.
         (405) 348-8650

      5. Ohio - Professional List Service
         (216) 333-6070

      Now, once you decide which lists you want to mail, you should also give some consideration as to how you are going to eliminate "deadwood" names which probably will never become one of your customers. Some of the ways you do this are very simple and only require a little common sense. If, for example, you are selling something that only appeals to women, you instruct the list broker or list owner to simply eliminate all men from the list.

      However, it's not always that simple. Suppose, for example, you are selling an upscale product with a big price tag... and... you know lower income people are not good prospects for you. Well, what you need to know here is some of the bigger list companies like Donnelly & Polk use what is known as a "demographic overlay." What this means is each name on their files is "coded" with info about the aggregate value of the vehicles they own, their education and income level, their marital status and a dozen or so more "life-style indicators" which enables you to select only those people who are most likely to purchase your goods or services.

      Another way you can choose people is by ethnic groups such as Italians, Germans, etc. And if, for example, you are publishing a magazine like Ebony that is written for a Black audience, you can ask for only those people who live in Zip codes with predominately Black households.

      On the other hand, you can also eliminate Black households from your mailings if you are selling something which only appeals to Caucasians.

      So, no matter what mailing list you decide to use, be sure and discuss the "selects" available with your list broker or whatever mailing house you are using.

      In conclusion, I'd like to say the main things you should do, as a result of reading this Section are:

      1. Browse through the SRDS List Book for several hours at least. It will really open your eyes... and... give you hundreds of ideas!

      2. Call at least one of the list brokers or mailing houses mentioned in this Section and ask for their advice!

      3. Put on your "thinking cap" and think of some fresh new ways to "customize" your mailings!

And finally... good luck!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Grout Sponge!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zfzz_grout_sponge.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

See the date (above) of this newsletter?

Guess what? That date is a flat-out lie. That's the date this letter should have been written. It wasn't. I didn't get this newsletter out in time because I have a new "hobby" that occupies an enormous amount of my time. My new hobby really sucks. You know what it is?

My New Hobby Is Moving!

Remember Hurricane Irene? You probably don't unless you live in South Florida. The truth is, most of us just flat out don't give a shit about anything that happens outside our immediate geographical area... unless, of course... that event somehow affects us personally or business-wise. Ah, whatever. Anyway, Irene was one of the last hurricanes of the 1999 season (she popped up in the middle of October) and wasn't even supposed to hit the Keys at all. Not only that, nobody much cared because Irene was only a Category One hurricane which is as low as you can get on the "hurricane meanness" scale. Category One hurricanes get "minimal" wind speeds from 74 to 95 miles per hour.

I go to bed not even thinking about Irene. Well, the forecasters mispredicted (I think I just invented a new word) the track she was going to take and she made a bull's-eye directly on the house in which I was living. I lived in the bottom half of the house and, at the time, my aunt and uncle lived in the top half.

Category One. No big deal. Except somehow, everybody forgot it is the water damage from a hurricane which wreaks the most havoc. Those high wind speeds make the most dramatic video bites for the TV news casters... but... it is the amount of water the hurricane dumps on the land which mostly determines the extent of the damage.

Guess what? Irene dumped 13 to 16 inches per day on some parts (including my part) of Florida. When I woke up, much of the stuff in my apartment was floating. The property on which we were living literally turned into "Lake Halbert." My Aunt Wanda actually took photos of me paddling my poke boat in the driveway and all around the lawn.

Bottom-line: The damage was so extensive, I had to move. At the time, I had a little office I really didn't need. I just had to have a place to go so I could get out of the house once in a while when my uncle was sick. My little "getaway" was next to the gym where I worked out, thus, I decided it was as good a place as any to move into.

Damn, did that ever suck! The master thermostat to set the temperature for all the units was located in my office... but... I wasn't allowed to operate it. For whatever bizarre reason, I was always freezing my ass off... or... about to expire from heat exhaustion.

Not only that, the walls were all of about 1/4" thick so I could hear everything going on in the gym... including... a bunch of porker women yelling their way through an aerobic class at all hours of the day and night... including... the hours before sunrise.

Plus, the roof leaked.

Seriously leaked.

Thus, I decide to move a bit further up the road to a nice place called the Pelican Motel. I end up living there for more than three months. Clean, neat and basic. All is well... except... I had to learn to do what I later termed "The Pelican Shuffle." In other words, once, twice, or maybe even thrice a week...

I Had To Move
To Another Room!

Once I had to move from Unit 4 to Unit 5. Know what the difference is between Unit 4 and Unit 5? NOTHING! Almost all the rooms are clones of each other. Apparently, the "Pelican Regulars" (snowbirds who come to the hotel year after year during the winter season) often insist on having their exact same room every time.

Now picture this in your mind: Let's say you've got a Dayrunner calendar where you keep track of all the stuff you gotta do... and... two or three days of every week, the first thing you gotta do on those days is...

Move!

Do you have any idea how much moving sucks? Even if you only have to move across the hall?

It's a nightmare. But, the nightmare eventually ends because... TA DA!... the houseboat I bought in Cocoa Beach is finally moved to Peg Leg's Marine Center... and... I am able to move aboard.

Yahoo! I am finally living in my home. But, I want my new home to be spiffier than it is. I want solid oak floors on the entire interior of the boat. I want the boat painted "my colors" (peach and teal) and a zillion other things done. The marina hires guys to do this stuff for me...

While I'm Living
On The Boat!

Have you ever decided to live in a house at the same time it is being remodeled? Trust me, you won't do it twice. If you ever even think about doing it, rent the movie "Money Pit" starring Tom Hanks.

I learned all kinds of new stuff while my boat was being remodeled. Like what a "floor leveler" is. Just in case you're like me and had no idea such a thing existed, here's what it is: Let's say you have a floor made of something other than wood... but... you want the floor to be wood. In that case, some chain-smoking construction worker who hasn't bathed in a month will use a tool (called a "level") to check out the levelness (what else?) of your pre-existing floor and discover if it is 100% level or not. He does this because he wants the original floor to be level before he puts down your new wooden floor. If it's not 100% level, he takes a grey putty-like substance ("floor leveler") and smears it on the unlevel parts of your floor and forms and shapes it till his device says your floor is level.

How did I, Sir Gary of Halbert learn about floor leveler? Well, one night it is time for me to go nighty-night. There is dim lighting coming from my bedroom and, I see no need to turn more lights on. Because floor leveler goo is greyish, it doesn't reflect much light. Thus, I learn what floor leveler is the hard way...

I Step In It!

Now listen up. Floor leveler has to lay around and harden (just like concrete) before you can put your wooden flooring on it. Who knew? As I just told you, I stepped in this big, grey blob of something resembling powdery grey cat shit which I proceed to track all over my houseboat. The next day, the construction workers yell and howl and laugh at me. "I'm a copywriter!" I yell back. "How the hell am I supposed to know about stuff like floor leveler?! Can any of you assholes do a mathematical, demographic regression analysis on a marketing campaign?"

Well, I dare say THAT shut them up.

Onward. Have you ever been in a "Home Depot" store? They've got so much weird shit in those HUGE stores, it's like shopping on Mars. But, Home Depot has saved my soul. They have illuminated for me, the missing spiritual chunk of my life needed to make me happy, fulfilled and at peace. Believe it or not, Home Depot taught me this lesson in only four words. Yessirreebob, they got a sign in there which completely straightened me out. Here's what it says:

Don't Forget

Grout Sponge!

Do you know how often I have forgotten grout sponge? Actually, I have forgotten it (until now) every single day of my life. That's why I am convinced it was the major reason things had often gone badly for me. Can you even imagine trying to have a halfway decent day during a 24-hour period...

When You Have Completely
Forgotten Grout Sponge?

I think it's probably impossible.

I still don't know what "grout sponge" is (please don't tell me and take the mystery out of it) but, I never forget it anymore. Besides, now that grout sponge is never far from my consciousness, I sense my life is beginning to improve.

My houseboat is very livable now. In fact, it's a great place to live. Even so, I took it to a boat yard where they are pulling it out of the water to scrape and paint the bottom. The boat yard is also repowering it with brand new engines. They say this will take about 30 days. Translation: It will take 60 to 90 days. They say it will cost about $25,000. Translation: It will cost $50,000 to $75,000.

Where do I live now? I'll have to learn how to use my GPSR (Global Positioning Satellite Receiver) to find out. This is a little gizmo which tells me (if I could figure out how to use it) what my exact geographic location happens to be.

I've decided to travel while my home is being worked on. I just came back from spending a few days with Joe Polish. He has a new house. He thinks his house is great. Actually, it is as mediocre as Peter Louis. With minor (almost indistinguishable) differences, it looks like every other house on his street... which were... of course all built by the same builder. Being the "King of Carpet Cleaners" his floors are naturally made out of...

CONCRETE!

Concrete which is painted a variety of goofy colors which has a magnetic attraction for every kind of dust and dirt found in all of Phoenix. Joe also has a new Jaguar bought for him by Bill Phillips of EAS. Bill bought Joe the car because... even though Joe gave Bill most of the better ideas used to promote Bill's book ("Body of Life")... Bill didn't give Joe any of the credit whatsoever. Bill didn't have the balls to talk with Joe in person about that subject so, he bought him the car. Joe likes the car but, if you'd paint that sucker red, it would look almost exactly like an $83,000 Miata.

Since he drives the car in Phoenix, the door handles get so damn hot, you have to hold a rag in your hands to open the doors to avoid getting a first degree burn.

Speaking of Phoenix, why the hell does this city exist anyway? Can you imagine 150 years ago, some guy and his wife riding across the country looking for a place to live, they come to the Phoenix area... the guy looks at his wife and says...

"Honey, Let's Settle
Right Here!"

"Oh, gosh yes!" his wife immediately replies. "It's 130 degrees, there's no water, no trees, no vegetation and, the Indians have mostly all died because sun tan lotion hasn't been invented yet."

They settle there and live in caves during the day to escape the heat, procreate at night and, their fourth of fifth generation progeny have all purchased "Starbucks" franchises and constantly consult Fengshui experts to help them adjust the energy flow of their environments.

You know what else? While I was visiting Joe, I gave him what may actually be the most profitable marketing idea of his pathetic life.

Because I have no home, in less than one day from the time I finish writing this newsletter, I am flying to New Jersey to help Nate Aventino and the people she works with create a couple of "killer" promotions.

You know what I've decided to do next? I'm going to put on a seminar. You know what it's going to be about? Well, I don't know either. I'm going to call it...

"Gary Halbert's
'No Agenda' Seminar!"

Got questions about copywriting? Then I'll talk about copywriting and answer your questions the best I can.

Want to know something about the stock market? Ask me and I'll reveal shit you never even dreamed about. Plus, my son Bond will disclose even more.

Got Internet questions? I bet I can (with the help and expertise of my attendees) give you answers which will knock your socks off.

Want to know where the really hot chicks are in Rio? We'll stick ear plugs in the ears of all the ladies at my seminar, and I will lay some truly scorching info upon you.

What I want this seminar to be is...

The World's Ultimate
Brainstorming Seminar!

You're gonna have to pay to come though. But not too much. I'm gonna keep it cheap because I want a lot of people there.

When is this seminar going to be held?

Soon!

Exactly when? I don't know. I'm leaving that all up to Theresa. Where are we going to have it? I'm leaving that up to Theresa also. Exactly how much is it going to cost you to attend? I'm leaving that up to her too.

Why am I doing it this way? I have to. I'm too busy moving to do anything else.

What should you do if you want to come? Well, since Theresa doesn't even know about this yet, she'll need a few days to start making arrangements. In the meantime, if you really want to attend, you have to call...

(305) 534-7577

You'll get Theresa's voicemail and, after the beep, you've got to leave a message something like, "Theresa, this is John Q. Everett (or whatever your name is). I am interested in coming to Gary's 'No Agenda' seminar. Please give me all the details." Then be sure to leave your phone and fax numbers, your e-mail address and, your real address. I don't know how she'll choose to respond to these calls but, I want her to have every available option.

                                        

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
  "Homeless"

 

P.S.	Are you pissed off at me for writing this newsletter instead of the one about copywriting I was supposed to write? Well, guess what? I don't care. After all the moving and relocating and traveling I've done recently...

That's Not What I
Felt Like Writing About!

Instead, I felt like ranting... and... the truth is, I never liked you very much anyway.

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Warning: This Is NOT A Newsletter!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zdzs_warning_not_newsletter.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I'm not where I'm supposed to be.

Earlier this month, I made my best-ever trip to Costa Rica and returned to Florida feeling on top of the world. It was a beautiful, sunny day and I gave the cab driver directions to where I live on my 46' houseboat in a luxury, gated marina. As soon as I stepped out of my cab...

My World Turned Upside Down!

That's because in the early morning hours just before dawn on that same day, my houseboat had sunk. The staff at the marina managed to get a salvage crew on an emergency basis to raise my houseboat up out of the water and get it floating again. So far, there has been no satisfactory reason given to me as to why my houseboat sunk. It remains a mystery.

Since that boat was my home, just about everything I owned was in it. Now, of course, it's all been destroyed. From the smallest possessions like my photographs, CD's, video tapes, audio cassettes and books... to bigger items like my computer, fax machine and exercise equipment... to larger pieces including all my bedroom, living room and dining furniture... everything.

I've always traveled light to and from Costa Rica. You see, I actually keep a small, second set of clothes there so I won't have to pack much for my visits. Unbeknownst to me, what I put on that day preparing to fly out of Costa Rica (a pair of socks, a pair of underwear, a pair of trousers, a belt and a shirt) would pretty much be all I would have left in this world. In short...

I Was Pretty Much Wearing
Everything I Owned!

I do not consider this a tragedy. No, a tragedy would be if my fiancée said she really didn't love me and we weren't going to be together any more... or... one of my children had been in a serious accident... or... some grievous misfortune had befallen somebody in my "extended family" whom  I love very much.

My loss may not be a tragedy but, it is a massive inconvenience. If there were an "inconvenience scale" with ratings from 1 to 10, I'd give this situation a whopping 10.

Anyway, I've since managed to get a bare bones wardrobe, another computer, and even an apartment. (I have to have some place to lay my head at the end of the day.) Needless to say, I'm struggling endlessly to put some kind of order back into my life and to reconstruct it to a semblance of what it was before my houseboat went down.

Just imagine if you and your family had gone out for dinner only to return home to discover your house had been gutted with fire. That's more or less what I am experiencing and trying to cope with this month.

Why do I tell you all this? Is it merely to "sing the blues"? No. I'm writing this to let you know there is not going to be a March, 2002 issue of The Gary Halbert Letter. I can't write it because I'm simply too occupied with everything I mentioned above... plus... all the preparations I'm making for my upcoming "Patches of Light" seminar. Which, by the way, is only a couple of weeks away.

But, I did want to write all my Subscribers and tell them briefly what has happened to me and give them all the low-down on the seminar. I felt that perhaps some of you may have just learned at the last minute it will be possible for you to attend my seminar. If that's the case, here's the information you need:

My "Patches of Light" Seminar will be held at The Renaissance Orlando Resort (obviously, in Orlando, Florida). It's located at 6677 Sea Harbor Drive (next door to SeaWorld). You can book your room by calling  1-800-468-3571. Be sure to tell them you'll be attending the "Gary Halbert Patches of Light Seminar" because Theresa has negotiated a very special room rate for my attendees. The Renaissance can hold that exclusive rate open for reservations until Wednesday, April 10. The seminar will start at 9:00 a.m. on Friday, April 19 and will end at approximately 1:00 p.m. on Sunday, April 21.

Now don't you waste a single minute feeling sorry for me. I always knew life sucked... and my houseboat sinking with all my belongings...

Is Just One More Proof Of The
Validation Of That Reality!

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.	I believe my "Patches of Light" seminar is going to be the most valuable seminar you will ever attend. Why? Simply because at this seminar, I am going to reveal a brand new method of making money with almost no risk and virtually no hassle whatsoever. I sincerely hope you can attend.
P.P.S.	Next month I'm going to write a double issue of my newsletter and I promise... as far as making a lot of money and making it quickly... that issue will be one of the most electrifying newsletters you will ever read.

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## All Post Offices Are NOT Created Equal!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zglk_post_office.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I've been writing this newsletter since September, 1986 and I have received thousands of letters, phone calls and faxes from people expressing their appreciation for what they got from reading those letters.

But never anything like what I got from my last issue.

The response from that issue has put me back on the board. Financially, emotionally and spiritually. I could devote this entire issue to expressing how grateful I am for all the help and encouragement I have received.

But, I'm not going to do that. Not now. I'm too close to it. Truth be told, I have a hard time dealing with appreciation and compliments. It's not what I got much of when I was growing up and, because of that, it's hard for me to take it in and let myself enjoy it. Especially the degree and amount of it I've received since mailing out that last issue. I'm tempted to fill up this issue by writing about all of you who've been so supportive this last month but, I daren't do that. Not now. It's too fresh and I'm afraid I'll get too caught up in it and not be able to do my job here. So, it'll have to wait. But, I've got to say something so, here's what I can manage at the moment.

Thank you.

OK, let's see if I can give you an idea or two that'll be profitable for you. First, if you use direct mail, I'm going to suggest something you can test which might give you a surprising increase in response. You know, since direct mail was invented, trillions of sales letters have been mailed. And untold thousands of things have been tested. Mailers test price. Red reply envelopes versus blue ones. Different mailing lists. They test (usually, based on my advice) attaching a "grabber" to the first page of their sales letters. They test offers. They test first-class versus bulk rate. They test different size envelopes and different size letters. They test different copy slants. Different appeals. Including a brochure or not including a brochure.

And on and on and on. Everything you can think of. But, there's one big thing you can test I bet you never thought of. It's something, if we lived in a perfect world, shouldn't make a difference. But, guess what? According to evidence I've been collecting, I now have reason to suspect we don't live in a perfect world (hard concept to accept, isn't it?) and so, if you use direct mail... I urge you... make this test...

Test Using One Post
Office Versus Using
Another Post Office!

I haven't moved. I still live right here in Miami Beach. But, I have changed my mailing address; it's now in Ocala, Florida. (See letterhead.) Why? Because, for a long time, I've suspected I wasn't getting all my mail. Then, about a week ago, I have dinner with another guy who has been, over the years, a very big player in the newsletter business. Turns out he moved here to Miami Beach about 1-1/2 years ago and he too has decided not to send or receive mail from the Miami Beach post office. He said he put out a big mailing the last week in December so it would hit the first couple weeks in January. His results were way off. As much as 40%. A mystery. Then, in March, three months after his mailing went out, the post office delivers a big bunch of orders to him that were postmarked in January. He tried to find out "why" but nobody had an answer for him.

Let's go back in time. Years ago, in another life, I lived in Ohio. Then, I decided I wanted to have an office in Florida. I started doing business out of Fort Lauderdale and, lo and behold, the response to the major mailing I was sending out back then took a dramatic nosedive. My wife at the time, Nancy, told me the reason was obvious: People simply wouldn't respond to a Florida address like they would to an Ohio address.

Sounded silly to me. Just didn't compute.

But I did a test and it turned out she was right. Very right. The difference in response was dramatic.

Here are, I believe, some of the reasons: (1) People don't trust people who live in big towns as much as they trust people who live in smaller towns. In fact, I believe people perceive some states as being more "trustworthy" than other states. New York, California, New Jersey and Florida are, in people's minds (I think) the most "untrustworthy" states of all. And, I'd guess, New York City, Los Angeles and Miami are the most "untrustworthy" cities.

(2) Secondly, I think you get way better service from post offices in small towns than you do from post offices in big towns. It seems to me, people who work in small town P.O.'s consider your mail important, whereas in some big town post offices, every letter seems to be a "pest" to be gotten rid of in any way that's convenient. Which does not necessarily include actually delivering that pesty piece of mail.

A guy in Provo, Utah told me about a very successful fund raising letter he had mailed from up there in Mormon Country. Actually, it was the test mailing that was profitable, not the "rollout" mailing which was a complete bomb. Same letter, same offer, same mailing list. What in God's name had happened?

He found out. He flew to Chicago and discovered 600,000 pieces of his mail...

Had Been Deposited In
Dumpsters Instead Of Mailboxes!

I don't know if it's still true but, Van Nuys, California used to be considered the "black hole" of the U.S. postal system. It was sorta like "The Hotel California For Letters" where much of the mail got checked in but never got checked out.

Big city postal employees are very busy: They've got a lot of drugs to take and a lot of people to shoot. Sometimes, in Miami or New York, when someone gets hot under the collar someone else will say, "Hey Man, don't go postal on me!"

Back in the days when I was riding high in the family coat-of-arms business with Dennis Haslinger, we got to where we were mailing upwards of a million letters per week. All the printing and lettershop work was done near Chicago but, we didn't mail from there. Instead, we had it trucked-in in a semi every week. I told Dennis I wanted to do it that way because it wouldn't appear authentic for a nice lady like Nancy L. Halbert who lived in Bath, Ohio to mail her letters from Chicago.

That was true but, there was another advantage we were getting by trucking our mail to Bath... a much bigger advantage... I wasn't even thinking about back then. The post office we were using was very small and located directly across the street from the small, red house on Ira Road that was our office. We had a personal relationship with the postmaster. As you can imagine, it wasn't long until we were buying 99.9999% of all the stamps purchased from his little post office. And, believe it or not, he appreciated it. He took care of us. If we gave him 100,000 letters to mail... all of them got mailed!

Do you think that would've happened anyway if we had let that Chicago lettershop do it for us?

I don't.

And I believe that more strongly now than ever before. Think of stamps as "paper coins." What that means is, if you are a big mailer, you should have checks and balances and accountability for all your paper coins... every bit as stringent...

As Those Used To Safeguard
Metal Coins By All The
Casinos In Las Vegas!

Stamps are money. Yet, we in the direct mail business often have only minimal (if any) accountability control when it comes to our postage currency. Therefore, if you are a big mailer or ever hope to become one, I'd like to suggest you make the following test: Let's say you've got a mailing of 100,000 pieces coming up. You tell your list broker you want to do an A/B split. That means every other name will be put on a different print-out of labels or put on a different computer disk or whatever. Then, you give one set (50,000) of those names to one lettershop (the one you normally use) and, you give the other set of 50,000 names to a different lettershop. You have your usual lettershop do what they normally do: Which is, of course, get the letters all ready to go and put them in the mail for you.

You have the second lettershop do everything the first lettershop did... except... you have that lettershop deliver the mail to you. Then, you count those letters and you take them to the post office yourself. You do this on the same day the first lettershop mails the other 50,000 letters. Then, you sit back and wait for the orders. (Naturally, you have the orders "coded" some way so you know which orders came from which mailing.) OK, now... I'll bet you a dollar to a donut...

The 50,000 Letters You
Counted And Took To The
Post Office Will Dramatically
Outpull The 50,000 Letters
Your Lettershop Took To
The Post Office!

Every time.

Does this mean I think all lettershop owners are dishonest? No. Not at all. What I do believe, however, is most employees of lettershops earn only a minimum wage and, they can't help but be tempted by all those "paper coins." I also believe "security" for all forms of postal currency is either extremely lax or, in fact, pretty much non-existent.

Plus, plenty of lettershop owners are dishonest!

Did you see that movie "Casino" starring Joe Pesci and Robert De Niro? It's about a real life guy named Lefty Rosenthal who ends up running a Las Vegas casino. If you watch the movie, you get an idea how all those mob guys make sure their coins are all accounted for. And, I'll tell you what: If those guys were buying 100,000 stamps to put on letters... well... I bet all of those letters would get mailed!

Yet... yet... some of the largest mailers in the world, some of them mailing hundreds of millions of letters per year treat their "paper coins" or their "metered coins" or their "indiciaed coins"... as though... they weren't real money. The consequences can be painful. Even financially disastrous. Recently, I myself made a multi-thousand piece mailing which was very important to me. It was an oversized mailing weighing more than one ounce and the postage necessary to mail it was 55 cents. You probably already know it (oddly, I didn't) but, the post office has a 55 cents self-adhesive stamp you can buy.

So, I bought thousands of them with which to make my mailing. The mailing was prepared in my office. When it was ready to go, a couple of the temporary employees who were working on that project took the mail to the post office.

Unsupervised.

The post office returned about 14% of the envelopes to me right away because the envelopes hadn't been sealed and there was nothing in them. When the nixies started coming back, there didn't seem to be enough of them. And maybe 15% to 20% of the nixies were sealed and stamped but had no sales letter or anything else in them. Then, we found one of our trusted employees with a bunch of 55 cent stamps. When questioned, he said he had purchased them with his own money... and... who am I to say he didn't?

When that letter went out about a month ago, I thought it was maybe the best sales letter I've ever written. Guess how many orders I got back in the mail?

None! Not one! Zippo! Nada! Zilch! Zero!

Listen, the letter could be a loser. I write losers just like  everybody else. (Rarely, but it does happen.) But not one? Not one order in the mail? To the best of my recollection, I've never had that happen before.

Which brings me to another little dealybop you'd better watch out for. Let's say you move and you send your post office one of those "change-of-address" forms. What happens? Just what's supposed to happen: They forward all your mail to your new address.

What's wrong with this picture? Consider this: What happens if someone else sends in a change-of-address form for you or your business? No mystery. The post office will forward your mail to the new address on the card. What? You thought they had an ANTI-FORGERY SWAT TEAM to verify your signature?

Sorry to disappoint you. Actually, it's a very common scam these days. The bad guys send in a phony change-of-address form and your mail gets forwarded to a mail drop. Then, they get your checks, your credit card numbers, all kinds of info about you... and... if you are in the mail order business... they get... your orders!

This can be financially disastrous. It can also wreck your rapport with your customers. Trust me, I know. This is getting to be very common. Happens every day. "60 Minutes" did a segment on it. However, this is one of those deals that works better in a large post office in a large city. In a small post office in a small town where everybody pretty much knows everybody else, it's much less likely to work. Also, it seems to me, postal employees in large cities are often individuals much lower on the food chain than postal employees in small towns.

I consider this business of treating your postage like it was  money so serious, I'm fully aware of being... redundant... redundant... redundant... about this point. I don't care. If what I'm writing here saves just one of my subscribers from taking the kind of financial bath I've just endured, it'll make me feel like that young boy in the "Starfish Thrower." I was reminded of that story recently by one of my friends and subscribers. I may not have it exactly right but it goes something like this:

Thousands of starfish washed ashore on a beach. A young boy stands among them, bends down, picks one up and throws it back into the ocean. Then he does it again. And again. A man comes along and asks him why he is doing this. "Starfish can't live out of the ocean," the boy explains, "so when I throw one back into the sea, it gets a chance to live."

"But what's the use?" asks the man. "There are thousands of starfish on this beach. You can't even begin to help them all. What difference does it make?"

The boy picks up another starfish and tosses it into the sea. Then, he looks at the man and says...

"Made A Difference To
That One, Didn't It?"

Perhaps some of my more "sophisticated" readers will consider the message in this issue too basic to have value. After all, when you boil it down, my only advice so far in this letter has been:

A.    Consider sending your mail from a different post office. Preferably a small one in a small town.

B.    Treat your postage just like it was real money... because... it is!

Maybe it doesn't sound like much... but... I'll tell you what: It's "core."

Here's more on the subject of mail: Last year, for the first time ever, more messages were sent by E-mail than by regular mail. And since you can send a jillion E-mail messages practically free, you'd think this would be a bonanza for marketers, wouldn't you? Well, it appears that is not the case. At least, not now. I've got a friend who lets me watch, once-in-a-while, as he accesses his E-mail. There's almost always a bunch of unsolicited commercial messages in his mailbox. Well, since these were sent mostly without charge by the sender, why is it none (or few) of them are making money?

Imagine this: There are two guys and both of them want to be entertainers. One guy has no talent and he's lazy. Aside from a few basic sloppy chords, he never even really learns how to play his guitar. His singing voice sucks and, he considers it to be beneath him to get a voice coach.

Then he gets a big break. Someone gets him on the "Tonight Show." He's got three minutes and tens of millions of people watching him. And, for some lucky reason, it didn't cost him a cent to get this chance of a lifetime. What happens to his career?

Doodley squat. Zippo. Nothing.

The other guy, he has some talent. Plus, he works his butt off mastering his guitar. He practices his songs over and over. He starts performing before small audiences and he takes note of what they like and what they don't. He changes and hones his act until it's a "killer." Then, he gets a shot on the "Tonight Show"... and... he becomes rich and famous and hated by the likes of Gary Halbert because of all the hot, sexy women who throw themselves at him.

The moral is obvious. You gotta pay your dues. I'm sorry but, you just gotta. Anyone who thinks otherwise should think about this...

Most People Who Want To
Be In The Mail Order Business
Couldn't Make It Even If
The Postage Was Free!

E-mail proves it.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S. Given my "public persona," you may not believe it... but... I have been left... literally speechless... by the reaction of my readers to the last issue of this newsletter. I've always been slightly put-off when someone talks about having a "mission" in life. Well, hokey as it may sound, I now believe my "mission" in life, and pretty much my only mission is... to keep writing The Gary Halbert Letter... to spend more and more time on it... to strive to make it better and better... to put even more of my heart and soul into it... to avoid cluttering up my life by trying to run a business (or even an office)... to become a better and better teacher... to be a teacher who teaches substance... and... who brings some smiles, some laughter and maybe a "patch-of-sunlight" into a few people's lives. From now on, that's it. That's my job, my only job, and I'm going to put everything I have into it.

        By the way, I wouldn't mind getting laid once-in-awhile either.

        Peace.

P.S.#2  As I told you at the onset of this newsletter, my mailing address has changed (that includes Fed Ex and UPS deliveries) but my phone and Fax numbers have remained the same. So, if you want me to actually receive the letters you send to me, don't send them to Miami Beach any more. Send them to Ocala which is a small town (population 43,000) north of Miami where (according to rumor, at least) some of the post office employees and residents... actually speak English!

            So, once again, here's my new mailing address:

The Gary Halbert Letter
Suite 905-467
3101 S.W. 34th Ave.
Ocala, FL  34474 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Live To Be 110... And...Still Remember Where You Left Your Car Keys!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zsll_live_to_be_110.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Here is a curious story.

He was a smallish man, an Orthodox Jew from Canada and a licensed pharmacist with not one but two degrees certifying he was indeed licensed to dispense pharmaceuticals. 

When I first met him, he told me he was looking for the best copywriter in the world because he wanted to publish a state-of-the-art health newsletter. He asked me for references (which rather amused me). Because I was in a pleasant mood, I actually gave him the names of a couple dozen people he could talk with if he wanted to check me out. I was further amused by the fact he called every one of these people plus several others whose names I had not given him. Finally, after all this research, he concluded I would be a good people to hire to do a copywriting job for him.

Although he is a licensed pharmacist (as I said "doubly" licensed) he has never written a prescription in his life. He believes prescription drugs cause far more maladies than they alleviate. After much brainstorming, I convinced him a state-of-the-art health newsletter would give info not only on alternative therapies and medicines... but also... on conventional treatments and medicines whenever they indeed proved to be the best option for a particular affliction.

I told him the best name for his newsletter would simply be The Josh Abraham Letter and assured him I would do the best job I possibly could to make this endeavor a success. Since there was not an urgent deadline, I was able to put four months of thinking into the creation of this promo and I would like to share with you here the beginning of the sales letter I wrote for him.

How To Live To Be 110... And...

Still Remember Where You

Left Your Car Keys!

From:
Josh Abraham
3011 Shannon St.
Santa Ana, CA  92704

Dear Friend,

As you can see, I have attached a real, live U.S. penny to the top of this letter. Why have I done this? Actually, there are two reasons:

1.   I have something very important to tell you and I needed some way to make sure this letter would catch your attention.

2.   And secondly, since what I'm writing about can save you money (a lot of money) I thought using a penny as a little "eye-catcher" was a good idea.

Anyway, here is what it's all about: In the next few days, I am (with your permission) going to send you a free copy of a report I have written titled:

How To Have A Photographic Memory... At Any Age!

Did you ever walk into another room to get something... and then... forget what the heck it was you wanted to get? Have you ever been held up when you wanted to go someplace because, you couldn't remember where you left your car keys? Have you ever been talking to a friend and, right in the middle of a sentence, you completely "blanked-out" on the point you wanted to make?

Don't worry. You don't have Alzheimer's. Chances are, there's nothing seriously wrong with you. All you need is a simple little pill the drug companies don't want you to know about. You can get it without a prescription, it doesn't have any side effects whatsoever... and... tests prove it is (by far) the most potent treatment in the world for memory enhancement!

I'll tell you more about this remarkable discovery in a minute. But first, I want to tell you a secret about myself. My name is Josh Abraham. I am a licensed pharmacist. In fact, I'm licensed to practice pharmacy in both the United States and Canada. I received my Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy from Long Island University in New York in 1988. Not only that, since 1994, I've been Executive Vice President of Regulatory Affairs for Stella Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. I could tell you all about my other diplomas and certificates but, I'm not going to bother. You see, here is my secret...

I Have Never Filled

A Prescription In My Life!

Why? The answer is simple: I have learned, in the United States alone, more than 100,000 people die every year... because of the drugs their doctors prescribed for them!

Plus, many prescription drugs do more harm than good... and... most of the time, there are natural remedies which are much cheaper, have no side effects, and work ten times better. That's a funny thing to hear from a guy who spent a small fortune and years of his life to become a pharmacist, isn't it?

I can't help it: I just can't fill a prescription (even though an M.D. authorized it) for a drug I know is not good for someone... especially when there are so many better alternatives. Let me give you an example: If you're over 40, you've probably experienced minor memory lapses that irritate you. If you're over 50, maybe it's gotten to the point where you're a little concerned about it.

Well, you don't need a prescription. What you really need is something you can get in a health food store with the scientific name "pregnenolone". This is a potent neurohormone that, once inside your brain, actually activates the neuroreceptors necessary for an effective memory. In animal studies, pregnenolone has proven to be 100 times more potent than anything else ever tested to improve memory.

And, guess what? When tested on humans, the results were similar! And, humans not only experience dramatic improvement in their memory... but also... a significant increase in concentration, an elevation in mood, and a reduction in mental fatigue.

Also exciting is the fact, when humans use pregnenolone with certain other vitamins and minerals... there is... a dramatic increase in median I.Q. levels!

However, you must take the right kind of pregnenolone (it's sold under different brand names), the right amount... plus... you need to learn all about the other non-toxic, no-side-effect agents that can virtually magnify your memory.

I can't tell you everything you need to know in this letter. It would take up too much space. That's why I have written How To Have A Photographic Memory... At Any Age which is an easy-to-read report... (written in plain English)... that will change your life. Why am I willing to send you this report... and... why am I willing to send it to you  FREE? The answer is simple: It's a bribe! It's what I call an ethical bribe to get you to try a trial subscription to my highly-regarded health newsletter called The Josh Abraham Letter.

Here's the deal: If you will agree to a trial subscription to The Josh Abraham Letter, I will send you the report I have just described... and... I will send it to you FREE! Plus, to make it even better, if you are not happy with my newsletter, I won't even ask you to pay for it... AND... you still get to keep the free report!

But wait! I want to "encourage" you even further. You see, once you read just one issue of my newsletter (any issue) I am so certain you will want to keep getting it every month. Therefore, I have decided to go all out... and... send you 10 more free reports you also get to keep even if you decide to cancel your subscription.

Free Report #2:   How To Stop, Reverse, And Prevent Heart Disease Now And Forever!

Etc., etc. etc.

I'd like to stop here and make a few comments on what you have just read: First, the headline is jam packed with subtle, compelling psychology. The opening words "How To Live To Be 110" reflect a goal all of our target audience would like to achieve. The length of time I chose to feature in that headline (110 years) is an exciting goal and yet, thanks to many modern medical discoveries, it is also a believable goal.

The next three words "And Still Remember" implant the thought that, even at 110, our reader will not be humiliated and crippled by faulty mental functioning. The final words of the headline, "Where You Left Your Car Keys" not only illustrates triumph over our most common mental lapse, it also imparts the idea we will still be physically active enough to drive a car.

You'll notice this is what I call a "penny letter" because it calls for a penny to be attached to the first page of the sales letter as an "eye-grabber." Penny letters are a pain in the ass. However, if all other parts of the promotion are created with exceptional skill, the penny always gives a significant "edge" to the probability of the sales letter being a profitable success.

The full version of this sales letter goes on to promise the reader ten more "bribes." Thus, in addition to being what I call a penny letter, it can also be described as one of Halbert's trademark "bribe" letters. The use of this combination gives you more a chance of success than any other sales letter format of which I am aware.

I'm not going to reprint the entire sales letter here (it is copy intensive and 8-pages long) but, I would like to share with you some of the brilliant bullets featured in it. This is just a small sampling of the approximate 80 bullets created for this sales letter.

¨   How to use ordinary postage stamps to find out whether a man having erection problems has a physical problem or a psychological problem... and... how to restore full sexual potency in less than 3-days!

¨   One very common (so-called "safe") surgery that increases the chance of getting prostate cancer by 300%!

¨    How to spot the early warning signs of Alzheimer's!

¨   Why staying out of the sun... increases your risk of getting skin cancer!

¨   Why people in New Mexico have only 1/2 the risk of getting cancer... as... people who live in Connecticut!

¨  A secret your doctor will never tell you about that... guarantees... you will recover as fast as possible after any surgery!

¨   Why Japanese women have almost no menopausal symptoms!

¨   How the color of the clothing you wear affects your energy level!

¨   A non-prescription agent that breaks up fat in your bloodstream and flushes it out of your body!

¨   Does shampoo cause Alzheimer's?

¨   Why the "by-pass surgery industry" would shut down tomorrow... if... everybody knew the truth!

¨    How to "signal" your fat cells to shed all your excess weight!

¨    How many men ("in-the-know") have cured their enlarged prostate in two months and cancelled their surgery!

¨    How to triple your sexual performance if you are over 40!

¨   How you can actually grow fresh neurotransmitters in your brain!

¨   A non-prescription antidote for anxiety that would put Prozac out of business... if... the American public ever found out about it!

Hey, ain't those some bitchin' bullets?

Okay, now here's the close of the letter:

I could go on and on. What you have just read is only a small sample of the exciting information you will get when you subscribe to The Josh Abraham Letter. You need this kind of hard-nosed information. It is not a luxury. If you truly want to live to a ripe old age (and stay healthy and youthful at the same time) then the information I am offering you is CRITICAL!

And, please don't forget, when you subscribe to The Josh Abraham Letter, you'll get all 11 of those valuable free reports (mentioned earlier in this letter) plus your iron-clad guarantee. What I mean is this: If you are ever dissatisfied with The Josh Abraham Letter for any reason whatsoever (or even no reason at all) just write and say you want to cancel and you will immediately receive a full refund on all unmailed issues... with no questions asked.

Plus... You Still Get To Keep

All 11 Of The FREE Reports!

How much is your subscription to The Josh Abraham Letter? Actually, compared to what you get, it's a lot less than you'd expect. When you read the order form enclosed, I am sure you are going to be very pleasantly surprised at our low subscription price. Not only that, we ask you postdate your check a full 31-days ahead. That way, if you decide to cancel your subscription, we will immediately send back your uncashed check. (By the way, if you chose to pay by credit card, you should also know we will not process your credit card payment for 31-days either.)

May your life be filled with love, joy, happiness... and a new improved memory!

                                                                                    Sincerely,

 

                                                                                     Josh Abraham

                                                                                     Editor

P.S.  Do not forget to postdate your check a full month in advance... or... if you are paying by credit card, to remember we will not process your credit card payment for a full 31-days. Also, I have enclosed a self-addressed reply envelope for your convenience.

        Thank you.

      A few words about the offer: You'll notice it asked people to postdate their checks 31-days ahead or, if they are paying by credit card, the letter promises the credit card payment will not be processed for 31-days. Allowing people to postdate their check a month in advance and/or promising not to process their credit card payment for a month is... just like attaching a penny to the first page of the sales letter... a royal pain in the ass. However, virtually everyone who ever tests this kind of offer finds it to be so much more profitable than the traditional "pay-for-it-right-now-and-I'll-send-your-money-back-if-you're-not-happy" offer.  The extra logistical effort it requires is irritating as a six pack of inflamed hemorrhoids but, it still pencils out to produce enough extra profit to nearly always be worth the aggravation.

Not only did I create the sales letter for this project, I also created a "stick letter" calculated to dramatically increase the profitability of this promotion. This stick letter is, I think, a particularly good one and I believe it would be of considerable value for me to allow you to read it. So, without further ado, here it is:

Dear Mr. Everett,

As you can see, I have attached a nice, crisp $1 bill to the top of this letter. Why have I done this? Actually, there are two reasons:

1.      I have something very important to say to you and I needed some way to make sure this letter would catch your attention!

2.      And secondly, for reasons I will explain in a moment, I wanted you to experience, as you opened this letter... the totally unique thrill... of receiving money in the mail from a completely unexpected source!

First things first. Mr. Everett, what is it I have to say to you that is so all-fired important? Simply this...

Thank You!

I really mean it. Recently, when you read the letter I sent to you (it started with the headline, How To Live To Be 110... And... Still Remember Where You Left Your Car Keys!) and you decided to subscribe to my newsletter, you took a chance. I admire that... and... I intend to do everything within my power to make this the best investment you will ever make. My newsletter is a labor of love. I slave over it like you wouldn't believe. I want my newsletter to be... by far... the most valuable health-building publication in the entire world.

In fact, my personal goal is to make each issue worth more than the entire yearly price you paid for your subscription!

To get you off to a quick start, I am sending you right now (by separate mail) your first issue of my newsletter, The Josh Abraham Letter, plus the 11 of the free reports I promised to give you. Do you remember all those free reports and what they are about? Just to make sure, let me list the titles here to refresh your memory:

1.      How To Have A Photographic Memory... At Any Age!

2.      How To Stop, Reverse, And Prevent Heart Disease Now And Forever!

3.      How To Stop Deadly Cancer Without Surgery Or Radiation!

4.      Six "Insurance" Nutrients You Must Take To Prevent Disease And Premature Death!

5.      How To Lower High Blood Pressure In 14-Days Or Less... Without Dangerous Drugs!

6.      The Anti-Cancer Diet... 16 Amazing Superfoods That Prevent Cancer!

7.      Miracle Age-Reversing Nutrients!

8.      How To Cure Arthritis With A Simple Grocery Store Remedy!

9.      How To Train Your Metabolism To Burn Fat 24-Hours-A-Day, 7-Days-A-Week And Lose All The Weight You Want... Without Weight-Loss Dieting!

10.    Why Viagra (The Potency Pill) Might Not Be A Sexual Panacea For Every Man!

11.    How To Have Maximum Energy In Minimum Time!

Anyway, these are the 11-free reports which are now being mailed to you along with your first copy of my newsletter. This material will be in your mailbox in the next few days... and... I strongly suggest you read all this info immediately. Some of it is so important and so unique... it could literally save your life!

Now, let me move on to something else: Look, if you want to have excellent health, you absolutely must take certain supplements, vitamins and minerals. All in all, if you take everything you need to maintain optimum health, you are going to have to pay a small fortune... if... you make your purchases in your home town. However, because you are now a subscriber to The Josh Abraham Letter...

You Can Buy All The

Supplements You Need At

Dirt-Cheap Prices!

Here is why: When you go to a drug store or a health food store, you will have to pay retail. But, that is NOT the case with me. You see, I am a registered pharmacist in both the United States and Canada. That means I can buy any supplement... any vitamin... any mineral... any herb... or... anything else related to health... at below wholesale prices. Therefore, because you have become one of my newsletter readers, I am willing to pass on these savings to you. In fact, as of now, you have automatically been enrolled as a complimentary member of...

The Josh Abraham

Discount Club!

To give you an idea of how valuable this is, I have enclosed a special notice which is inside the sealed envelope I am sending you with this letter. When you read that notice, you will discover... why... getting all your nutritional needs from The Josh Abraham Discount Club... is like... getting free money in the mail!

You'll see for yourself when you open the envelope.

Now, let's talk about that dollar bill I have sent you with this letter. You can do whatever you want with it. You can give it to charity. Buy yourself a protein milkshake or whatever. But, you know what I hope you do with it?

I Hope You Frame It!

Then, someday in the not-to-distant-future, what I hope will happen... is... someone will see that dollar bill hanging on your wall and ask you about it, and you will say...

"Well, that happens to be the very first dollar I saved on my health care needs because of Josh Abraham... and... since then... I have saved thousands more!"

OK, that's enough for now. Mr. Everett, thank you again for signing up for my newsletter and giving me a chance to prove myself to you. I appreciate it from the bottom of my heart. As I said earlier, I'm going to do everything within my power to make my newsletter the best investment you ever made in your life.

                                                                                           Sincerely,

                                                                                           Josh Abraham

 

P.S.   The information inside the sealed envelope has a time limit connected to it... so... I hope you read it right away.

         Peace and good health.

I personally guided Mr. Abraham through every step of this promotion. Everything from obtaining the mailing lists, getting the promotion produced and mailed, keeping track of the orders, and so forth. And guess what? The promotion...

Was A Winner!

Indeed with some "tweaking" it could possibly turn out to be a monster winner.

But guess what else?

After doing everything involved, sending out all the letters, and getting the results (which were excellent) Mr. Abraham, for personal, religious and family reasons... not fully comprehensible to a simple-minded swamp dweller such as myself... has decided not to go forward with this project.

I like this guy. After months of work, an investment of approximately $87,000 and following every suggestion I gave him, he has ended up with a winner on his hands he is unable to exploit. He bears me no rancor (why should he?) and I have no negative feelings about him either. I guess this one simply goes into the category of "just one of those things."

However, it saddens me to see this little, good-hearted man suffer a financial loss like this, even though I cannot comprehend the "why" of it. So, I came up with the following idea: Why don't I feature this situation in one of my newsletters which will be very informative for all of my readers and possibly, a real died-in-the-wool jackpot for one of them.

See, what I said to Josh is, "Look, I'm gonna write about this situation and suggest to my readers that if somebody out there is looking for an already created, tested and 'ready-to-go' mail order business, they ought to make a deal with you to take ownership of this promo, run like crazy with it and repay you the 87,000 smackaroos you put up to make all this happen... with... the proviso they can pay you so much a month out of the profits it generates. This way, everybody wins including 'Yours Truly' who is entitled to 5% of whatever gross monies this dealybop produces."

Would you like to know more about this? Would you like to see the complete sales letter? Would you like to know the actual names of the mailing lists used to test this offer? Would you like to know the actual results it produced? Would you like to read the actual first edition of The Josh Abraham Letter which was also created by none other than Yours Truly? If so, all you have to do is call Josh and convince him you are really interested in this deal and not just some curious, do nothing spectator who wants a free look at all this material. Josh will be more than happy to send you a package containing the complete sales letter, the full size version of the stick letter, the actual first issue of the newsletter, and all relevant facts and figures.

This is a made-to-order opportunity for someone who seriously wants to get into the mail order business. But please, do me a favor: Please don't pester this man with a telephone call requesting all this unless you are real. If you don't have enough money to take this over and roll it out or, if you have one of those pain-in-the-ass anal personalties that just aggravates the hell out of everybody and slows everything down to a crawl... please don't do anything. Don't call Josh. Don't  suck him (or worse yet, me) into the miserable vortex in which you reside.

Even for those of you (which, of course, means nearly all of you) who have no interest in getting involved in this project, there has been more inside information revealed in this newsletter about how a successful mail order business is really created than even a great teacher as I normally publish.

Read this entire issue two or three times. There is a lot here for those of you astute enough to catch it.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.     You can call Josh Abraham at (914) 425-3450 except during the Orthodox Jewish Sabbath which starts at sundown every Friday and lasts 24-hours until the sundown on Saturday.

P.S.  #2 I have nothing more to say this month.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The World Is Your Urinal!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zdll_world_is_urinal.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I've been working long, hard hours these last few months.

And don't be jumping to conclusions thinking, "Aha! I knew his stock system was a lot of work." Because, my friend, you'd be dead wrong.

I've been working long, hard hours teaching my students my stock system. You know, there are only so many hours in the day and to teach each and every one eventually takes its toll on you. Even if you enjoy doing what you're doing.

So this month, I've decided to lighten my own load of writing my newsletter. I've decided, being the male chauvinist pig that I am, I want to share with you some keen insight into...

100 Reasons Why
It's Great To Be A Guy!

1.        Phone conversations are over in 30 seconds flat.

2.        Movie nudity is virtually always female.

3.        You know stuff about tanks.

4.        A five-day vacation requires only one suitcase.

5.        Monday Night Football.

6.        You don't have to monitor your friends' sex lives.

7.        Your bathroom lines are 80% shorter.

8.        You can open all your own jars.

9.        Old friends don't give you crap if you've lost or gained weight.

10.      Dry cleaners and haircutters don't rob you blind.

11.      When clicking through the channels, you don't have to stall on every shot of someone crying.

12.      Your ass is never a factor in a job interview.

13.      All your orgasms are real.

14.      A beer gut does not make you invisible to the opposite sex.

15.      Guys in hockey masks don't attack you.

16.      You don't have to lug a bag of useful stuff around everywhere you go.

17.      You understand why stripes are funny.

18.      You can go to the bathroom without a support group.

19.      Your last name stays put.

20.      You can leave a hotel bed unmade.

21.      When your work is criticized, you don't have to panic that everyone secretly hates you.

22.      You can kill your own food.

23.      The garage is all yours.

24.      You get extra credit for the slightest act of thoughtfulness.

25.      You see the humor in "Terms of Endearment."

26.      Nobody secretly wonders if you swallow.

27.      You never have to clean the toilet.

28.      You can be showered and ready in 10 minutes.

29.      Sex means never having to worry about your reputation.

30.      Wedding plans take care of themselves.

31.      If someone forgets to invite you to something, he or she can still be your friend.

32.      Your underwear is $10 for a three pack.

33.      The National College Cheerleading Championship.

34.      None of your co-workers have the power to make you cry.

35.      You don't have to shave below your neck.

36.      You don't have to curl up next to a hairy ass every night.

37.      If you're 34 and single, nobody notices.

38.      You can write your name in the snow.

39.      You can get into a non-trivial pissing contest.

40.      Everything on your face stays its original color.

41.      Chocolate is just another snack.

42.      You can be president.

43.      You can quietly enjoy a car ride from the passenger seat.

44.      Flowers fix everything.

45.      You never have to worry about other people's feelings.

46.      You get to think about sex 90% of your waking hours.

47.      You can wear a white shirt to a water park.

48.      Three pair of shoes are more than enough.

49.      You can eat a banana in a hardware store.

50.      You can say anything and not worry about what people think.

51.      Foreplay is optional.

52.      Michael Bolton doesn't live in your universe.

53.      Nobody stops telling a good dirty joke when you walk into the room.

54.      You can whip your shirt off on a hot day.

55.      You don't have to clean your apartment if the meter reader is coming by.

56.      You never feel compelled to stop a pal from getting laid.

57.      Car mechanics tell you the truth.

58.      You don't give a rat's ass if someone notices your new haircut.

59.      You can watch a game in silence with your buddy for hours without even thinking 'he must be mad at me.'

60.      The world is your urinal.

61.      You never misconstrue innocuous statements to mean your lover is about to leave you.

62.      You get to jump up and slap stuff.

63.      Hot wax never comes near your pubic area.

64.      One mood, all the time.

65.      You can admire Clint Eastwood without starving yourself to look like him.

66.      You never have to drive to another gas station because the one you just pulled into is just too skeevy.

67.      You know at least 20 ways to open a beer bottle.

68.      You can sit with your knees apart no matter what you're wearing.

69.      Same work... more pay.

70.      Gray hair and wrinkles add character.

71.      You don't have to leave the room to make an emergency crotch adjustment.

72.      Wedding dress $2,000; Tux rental $100.

73.      You don't care if someone is talking about you behind your back.

74.      With 400 million sperm per shot, you could double the earth's population in 15 tries... at least in theory.

75.      You don't mooch off other's desserts.

76.      If you retain water, it's in a canteen.

77.      The remote is yours and yours alone.

78.      People never glance at your chest when you're talking to them.

79.      ESPN's sport center.

80.      You can drop by to see a friend without bringing a little gift.

81.      Bachelor parties whomp ass over bridal showers.

82.      You have a normal and healthy relationship with your mother.

83.      You can buy condoms without the shopkeeper imagining you naked.

84.      You needn't pretend you're "freshening up" to go to the bathroom.

85.      If you don't call your buddy when you say you will, he won't tell your friends you've changed.

86.      Someday you'll be a dirty ol' man.

87.      You can rationalize any behavior with the handy phrase, "F*@# It!"

88.      If another guy shows up at the party in the same outfit, you might become lifelong buddies.

89.      Princess Di's death was almost just another obituary.

90.      The occasional well-rendered belch is practically expected.

91.      You never have to miss a sexual opportunity because you're not in the mood.

92.      You think the idea of punting a small dog or cat is funny.

93.      If something mechanical doesn't work, you can bash it with a hammer and throw it across the      room.

94.      New shoes don't cut, blister, or mangle your feet.

95.      Porn movies are designed with your mind in mind.

96.      You don't have to remember everyone's birthdays and anniversaries.

97.      Not liking a person does not preclude having great sex with them.

98.      Your pals can be trusted never to trap you with, "So... notice anything different?"

99.      Baywatch.

100.    There is always a game on somewhere.

Go ahead and say it, "Gary, You Pig!" Whether male or female, I know there was at least one statement mentioned that made you howl.

Now, I must say, I feel better having said all that. And having said all that, let's move onward to what this newsletter is really all about.

Do you ever wonder how much time you have before you absolutely have to get your fulfillment package shipped to a customer? Do you know the two types of ads governmental agencies are always on the lookout for? If you want to use a testimonial which you "bartered" for, do you have to mention that in your advertising? I think these are valid questions which my readers should be well aware of. Thus, I now want to share with you some keen insight into...

The 17 Things You Absolutely
Must Know If You Are
Involved In Direct Marketing!

1.     Your product must be shipped within 30 days of receipt of the order... unless your offering states a different period... or unless you send a delay notice. But that "delay notice" can't just be any ol' nice personalized letter from you. Oh no! It must be in the form required by the FTC (Federal Trade Commission; better get to know those initials well if you're dabbling in direct marketing) informing the customer of the delay... and... offering the option of a refund... and... you must enclose a postage prepaid envelope to facilitate a request for their refund. A violation of this one rule alone can subject you to penalties of up to $10,000 per violation.

2.     There is a difference between guaranteeing all participants will be successful... and... guaranteeing a refund if they are not. A guarantee all persons will be successful may be fraudulent because, obviously, all people will not be successful. Hell, they may not even lift their finger and do anything! But the governmental agencies gave us a way out of this one: A guarantee of money back is not fraudulent... provided it is honored.

3.     If a guarantee is subject to specific conditions, those conditions must be clearly divulged in the offering.

4.     Yet, simply offering a guarantee does not save a fraudulent ad. If your ad or letter contains fraudulent misrepresentations, the fact you bothered offering a money-back guarantee is no defense.

6.     It seems hard for me to believe, but some folks actually send their proposed advertising to the postal service and other regulatory agencies to review to see if it passes muster. If you fall into this category beware, their silence cannot be construed as approval. All you will have accomplished is to be absolutely sure the offending piece comes to their attention.

6.     There are some products which, if you sell them, make it a virtual certainty you will be scrutinized ("Big Brother" is watching). While it may be possible to sell these products honestly, it is almost certain you will be challenged. So, unless you're extra careful, try to stay away from cures for baldness, breast enlargers, weight-loss programs involving magic pills, work-at-home envelope stuffing programs, cures for illnesses such as arthritis, chain letters, and chain referral or pyramid schemes. As I said, they aren't necessarily illegal, but tread lightly.

7.     If you use testimonials in your advertising, you must have copies of the testimonials in your files. Also, if you provided consideration for that testimonial, you must disclose that in your marketing piece.

8.     You cannot whisper the truth and shout a lie. If you try to mention inconspicuously or in a very carefully-worded but otherwise misleading fashion (whispering) the actual truth that the customer must actually do something to be successful in your program... but... you later state with greater emphasis (shouting) in the same advertising that no work or effort is required... the ad will be interpreted to have made the claim no work or effort is required. This is because the advertising piece must be read as a whole. The authorities will consider the main message of the advertising piece to be false.

9.     Not that I think my subscribers would ever do this, but still, I must warn you... the postal service is engaged in cracking down on opportunity advertising... especially... envelope stuffing programs.

10.   In the postal administrative courts, there are cases which indicate having an "Opinion Letter" from an attorney is not a defense. But that isn't true in all cases. In a criminal case or any other case where a monetary penalty might be imposed, the fact you sought legal advice may have a bearing on the issue of lack of criminal intent or good faith. It could also affect the decision of government attorneys as to whether or not they should file criminal charges.

11.   Under the Lanham Act, a consumer who was injured because of mail fraud can bring a class action on behalf of other injured consumers to get refunds for everyone.

12.   Judges of the Federal Courts come from a socio-economic class where they don't think highly of diet ads, opportunity ads, and other "flamboyant" ads which are written in a National Enquirer style. Even though the law states the burden of proof is on the prosecution... in reality... it falls on the defense.

13.   You can be found guilty of mail fraud not only for what you say in your ad or letter, but also for what you imply. Implied claims are those things you don't come right out and say, but what an ordinary reader would read into the ad.

14.   Big Brother says the point of civil mail fraud cases is not to put the operator out of business (and we all believe Big Brother, don't we?). The point, they say, is to obtain a cease and desist order or a civil consent decree which stops you from making similar fraudulent statements in the future. Your goal ought to be to negotiate the terms of a consent decree. The outcome should be restrictive enough to satisfy the government... but... not so restrictive as to prohibit you from running advertising which still pull orders. Hear me well on this point: The attorney's role is critical. Your "family" attorney, real estate attorney, divorce attorney, personal injury attorney cannot handle this case for you. You've got to hire an attorney who has marketing savvy... he must understand what it takes to write an ad that will pull orders. He'll be the one who can guide you as to what you can give up to appease the government... while still... keeping you in business.

15.   Even though cases for mail fraud may be filed civilly, they are more likely to be filed as criminal cases. The reasons are: (a) Failure to deliver the product; (b) Failure to make promised refunds; or (c) Lottery or chain referral scheme.

16.   Another reason you must hire a marketing-savvy attorney is due to the fact postal and FTC cases are not handled like ordinary lawsuits. Most attorneys make the mistake of Answering the Complaint, gearing up for discovery, and "act tough." In some cases, the tough guy approach may be proper but... in almost all cases... the best approach is to at least try to get together with the opposition as early as possible with the hope of working out a win/win solution. The outcome will allow you to continue to operate your business with minimal government interference while still protecting the public. I cannot emphasize it enough: The attorney's role is critical because he must understand not only your needs but also the goal of the government. Remember, judges generally react badly to mail order advertising... and... the mail fraud laws are so broad, it usually is easy for the government to get a victory. The main objective of you and your attorney is to avoid large penalties and a court order which could prohibit you from operating profitably in the future.

17.   Whether the case is filed civilly or criminally for mail fraud, statutes now permit the government to seize real and personal property, including bank accounts which are used in a mail order business or which are traceable to the proceeds of a mail order business. Such seizures can be made without notice and may result in total forfeiture of such assets to the Federal government.

Now just because I shared these "warnings" with you doesn't mean you have to be paranoid when you start writing your letter or ad. The key to writing good copy is to sit down and write. Write like a madman. Spill your guts. Let it flow freely. Don't think about Big Brother or any other negative factor. It's just you and your customer. Don't think about spelling, hyphenation, grammar. These are things you can take care of later.

Then, after you've gotten it down on paper... then... you go back and if need be, clean it up a bit. Are some of your phrases and words too harsh? Too soft? Too bland? Are you too ambiguous as to what you are trying to achieve? And if you're one of those people who have used a computer for this project, did you not only do a "spellcheck," did you actually sit down and read it yourself? You know, the old fashioned way? You'd be surprised at the typos that a spellcheck will let by. I once read the words "doe snot" where it was clearly supposed to be "does not." And while I'm on the subject of proofreading, the absolute best way to proofread is to read it aloud. Turn off the radio, the television, the wife, the kids. Go find yourself a quiet place (your bathroom will suffice if all else fails) and read it aloud.

Then, after you've cleaned it up... then... you go through your checklist. Do I have an outstanding headline that'll grab their attention? Is my introductory paragraph going to whet their appetites to continue reading? Does the body tell them everything they need to know about the product? Did I include testimonials? Did I take all the risk factor by giving them a money-back guarantee? Are the ordering instructions perfectly clear and easy to follow? Did I put in some type of "code" so I can keep track of which list or publication pulled best? Did I mention how long my customer should wait before he receives the product? Did I write Gary Halbert and tell him how much I value all the information he shares with me?

Then, after you've added those items you might have previously omitted... then... go back and proofread it again.

Then, after you've made the final corrections... then... give it to someone else to read. If they say, "Wow, I gotta have this!" you know you have yourself a winner. And then, my friend, you drop your sales letter in the mail like hotcakes or get your ad to its publication via Federal Express.

Go for it. Do something. Get your lazy ass in gear.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.    Help me out here guys... tell me what you'd like me to write about in upcoming issues. Or send me "100 Reasons Why It's Great To Be A Gal!" (Like, are there 100 reasons?)

P.S.#2  I cannot take credit for writing "100 Reasons Why It's Great To Be A Guy!" since those trinkets were passed along to me. Do you know what that now means? I also can't take credit for being the male chauvinist pig you thought I was!

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Make More Money From A Website Than Any Sane Person Can Possibly Spend!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zfza_more_money_website.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek



 
Dear Friend and Subscriber,



I am now going to write three words which, not long ago, I would have almost bet my life I would never write nor ever let come out of my mouth:

Bring Your Computer!




Can you believe it? I'm a guy who has a reputation for throwing computers down elevator shafts and into dumpsters. And, I believe my actions were correct when I was behaving like this.

You see, I would ask an employee to give me the Smith file. Instead of taking five seconds to open a metal filing cabinet, grab the file and hand it to me, she would spend 1-1/2 hours attempting to find that file which had been impregnated (she said for efficiency reasons) somewhere within a computer. This, admittedly, was in the dark days before Windows.

Since then, I have been dragged kicking and screaming into the computer age.

Subsequently, (but even before Windows) I've watched an endless parade of "computer experts" selling books, courses, seminars, etc. on the topic of how to make money on the Internet.

In truth, none of these "experts" even have a clue!

You see, every time a person visits your website, it's called a "HIT." So, one of the big secrets the experts promise to teach you is... how to get your website to always be included in the top ten matches when someone uses a search engine to look for something. These "experts" teach you which "buzz words" and "catch phrases" are currently the most frequent ones used on web searches.

It sickens me. Why? Because what they are teaching you is, in effect,  how to get a lot of uninterested people to visit your site.

Say someone is searching for raspberry jam and your website "expert" has taught you how to "trick" that person into visiting your website... although... your website is all about model airplanes. It's another "HIT" for you to chalk up and getting a lot of "HITS" means you will make a lot of money, right? WRONG! Here's the real definition of "HITS":

How Idiots Track Success!




Imagine HITS this way: Let's say you sell model airplanes and some scam artist sells you on the idea of buying an expensive billboard on I-95. He says you're gonna make a bundle because... so many people will see your billboard.

Sure. They'll see it for a microsecond as they whiz past it at     70 mph. Even then, only about 1 out of every 500,000 will have any interest in model airplanes. (Plus, none of them will have time to read your message anyway.) Thus, all that money you spent on that expensive billboard... which got you all those "HITS"... will be good for absolutely nothing. Nothing except giving you a big deduction when you file your taxes.

Here's something else these "experts" teach you: How to purchase "banner ads" on other websites so you can increase traffic to your website. Why do they do this? So you can sell banner ads on your website. It's like the blind leading the blind. It's an endless loop which reminds me of the stupidity of multi-level marketing.

Are There Real Ways

To Make Money With

A Website?




Yes, Virginia, there are some real ways to make money with a website. Here's a little-known fact about me: I, myself, have owned several commercial websites... every one of which... has made a quiet, spectacular profit.

How did I do it? It's easy.

And, after much deliberation, I've finally decided to let the cat out of the bag to a few (very few) of my Subscribers.

How will I do this? I'm glad you asked. I'm going to hold a seminar on the 27th, 28th and 29th of June in Los Angeles where I will reveal all of my little-known secrets of creating an extremely profitable website. In other words, if you attend this seminar, I will show you...

How To Make More Money

With A Website Than

Any Sane Person Can

Possibly Spend!




At my seminar, I'm going to teach you by showing you. I am now in the process of creating, what I honestly believe will be, by the end of this year... the most famous... and... one of the most profitable websites on the entire Internet. My new website will be launched on the first day of the seminar (June 27th). And, guess what?

The front page will be projected on a large screen (which will be in front of the attendees) throughout the seminar.

Why? Because... that front page will have a counter on it which will show how many people are visiting my website in real time. At first, there will be only a trickle. Then dozens. Then hundreds. Then thousands! The numbers will increase and increase... until... millions... perhaps even tens of millions are visiting the site... over and over... on a regular basis.

Those people won't be people I have "tricked" to visit my website by using buzz words or catch phrases to get me listed on the top ten matches of some search engine. Nope. All the people who visit my website will know exactly what they will find there... and... a nice, hefty percentage of them will end up paying me thousands upon thousands of dollars to purchase what is being marketed on that website because...

I Will Be Promoting It By Using

A New (And Super Effective) Method...

Nobody Has Ever Used Before!




But, I'm not the only person who knows new ways to promote a website. Here's part of a letter I recently received: 


Gary,

I am a long time follower of your newsletters and other products. I have used what you have taught me and created several business' on the internet that are currently bringing in over 1.5 million dollars a year.

I started MTrader.com, Realitytrader.com as well as several others. They are online daytrading and SwingTrading chatrooms where we charge members 200.00 dollars per month to learn and benefit from realtime stock pick calls in the daytrading arena. We have migrated to offer CD ROM's, Online Universities, Stock Scanning Software packages, Tape series, etc.... We are currently in negotiations to sell MTrade for upwards of 1.5 million dollars.

We have been featured in numerous media publications and forums such as: CNNFN, CNBC, BusinessWeek, TheStreet.com, Active Trader Magazine, LA Times, AP News, Investors Business Daily, USA Today, Business News Network Syndicated Radio, YAHOO finance Vision, Sage Online Chat, Radio Wallstreet.com, OnlineTrading Expo speaker, Speaking engagements at additional Expos and Seminars, Numerous Finance Radio talk stations, numerous local and national newspapers, Home Business Connection and more.

The point is, we are a force to be reckoned with in the industry. I took three relatively unknown traders and made them into the "perceived" experts in the field that media is constantly after. There are tons of online chatrooms centered around trading, but they come and go in droves. Nobody has the key to the market, operate and promote these types of business'. I do, and I took what I learned from you, Jay and many others and adapted it to fit the ever changing environment of Internet Marketing. Where others fail, I succeed.

I have developed a "cookie cutter" type methodology to start, promote and profitably run these types of business'.

I specialize in starting these business' with a very low start up cost. I started MTrader.com with less than 500 dollars and built it into a 3/4 of a million dollar business, at almost NO expenses.

I believe I have the correct formula for this. I am not approaching you to get you into this type of business with me, but, my passion is with marketing. I have always wanted to work with you and thought this might be a good opportunity. Do you have any interest in joining me in a joint venture, creating some product that teaches others to do exactly what I have done?

I am NOT interested in creating a product that is like the Internet Marketing trash on the net. What I am talking about is taking apart, piece by piece what I have done, by someone who is CURRENTLY doing it, THAT WORKS.
Lay out exactly what I did right, and wrong


What is currently working and what is not


How the link between PR and ebusiness is crucial


How to start up these internet chats, get the name out, get the order, get the repeat order


Stay legal


Find out exactly what your competition is doing with a simple trick and software package that is free


Why banners don't work, except one


How I sold one banner ad for 120K per year


How I worked a deal worth 18K per month with a broker and he thanked me for it


Why you should offer a daily email for free


How to capture and create your most valuable asset, your mailing list from every visitor who clicks your page


How I captured the biggest 5 competitors customer list in two days, over the weekend (legal and they thanked me for it)


How one simple phone call allowed me to find out exact marketing plans from 6 of my largest competitors


How I am in the process of selling one business for over 1.5 million dollars


How to get free advertising on the net


How an affiliate program is your most powerful marketing tool


Do it yourself PR with phenomenal results


Chatroom, how to set up, run and profit from them


I have a list of HOOKS that are phenomenal for any marketing campaign. And you can imagine the follow on products and sales from an initial lead product.

The list goes on and on. While the other dot.coms are flaming out, my projects are rising stars. Should you not be interested in working together, thanks anyway for all you have taught me. My family and I appreciate it. Can you let me know either way?

Please drop me an email with a contact number or email where we can continue our talks if you are interested in this.

                                              Respectfully,

                                              Jeff Tappan

 


Wow! Was that a bitch of a letter or what? I called Jeff as soon as I read it... and.. the story got even more exciting! You see, Jeff Tappan is in the Navy. He heads up a squadron of helicopter pilots... which means...

He Made His Millions Working Part-Time!




He's going to be at my seminar and I'm giving him an entire day to tell you all his secrets. He's promised to totally spill his guts. He'll reveal everything he talked about in his letter to me... plus... much, much more.

After he finishes his presentation, we'll have an uninhibited question and answer session where the attendees can ask him any questions whatsoever.

The following day, I'll be taking the stage. By that time, the number of visits to my website will be skyrocketing. It's at this point I'll reveal in exact detail how I created... and more importantly... how I promoted my website. I guarantee... it will stun you!

Next, I'm going to create a website for every attendee at the seminar which...

Will Be Up And Running

Before The Seminar Is Over!




I'll have some help with this. My son, Kevin, is the top digital imaging expert in Los Angeles. He's truly an "Alpha Geek." When the famous comedian, Sinbad, did his special TV and Internet event from Aruba, he hired Kevin to go with him as "insurance" just in case anything went wrong.

Also, my other son, Bond, and my "road dog" buddy, Scott "Mongo" Haines who are not "Alpha Geeks"... but... who are computer savvy... will "translate" what the geeks are saying into plain English. They will do this so the rest of us "normals" can understand this vital information and put it to work.

But wait! What if you don't have a product to sell or a website? Well, there's one type of product which is perfect for selling on the web... and... there will be a surprise "mystery" guest speaker to teach you how to create your own truly "killer" website product...

In Just 14 Days...

Or Less!




Now, let's get to the best part of all: Remember how last month's issue of my newsletter showed me with all those celebrities? Want to know what I charged in L.A. for my copywriting services? A mere $30,000.00 up front (in advance)... plus... 5% of all gross sales!

The client was happy to pay that fee and, so far, they've gotten 1,000 times their money's worth. What's that have to do with the seminar? Again, I'm glad you asked. My seminar price includes you receiving one full-blown promotion... written by me... with no 5% of gross sales ever added to the price! Listen...

If You Are Going To Only One

Seminar During The Rest Of Your Life...

This Is The One You Must Attend!




Now, I'm going to break some hearts.

You see, I'm determined to make this seminar the kind I've always wanted to do. It will be a "Players Only" seminar... and... it will be the most expensive seminar I've ever put on. Not only that, you can't pay with a credit card. You've got to pay by check... and... you've got to pay early. Plus, I want to talk with you one-on-one via the phone before I agree to allow you to attend.

I could charge a much lower price, get more people to attend and  end up making much more money. But, the truth is, at this time, I'd rather give a seminar for 3 real players... than... 300 starry-eyed  "wanna-be's."

If you want to come, it's gonna cost you a staggering $11,970... and... I realize 99% of my Subscribers can't afford to pay such an outrageous amount. I'm sorry about that. I truly am. But damnit, this time I want do a seminar where... every person in the room... is a dyed-in-the-wool certified player... and... is already a winner!

One more thing: Nobody gets to come to this seminar for free. There will be no "comps" whatsoever. And, right here and now, I want to write something which will prevent a certain type of letter and phone call or fax. The messages I don't want to deal with usually say something like this:

"Gary, my name is Dickhead Jones and I've been running a profitable website [which is a lie] for ten years. If you'll let me come to your seminar comp'd for free, I'll be glad to take a couple of hours and teach what I have learned to all your attendees."

The answer is NO! NO! NO! Is there anything about "NO" you don't understand? NO! Just plain, ol' NO!

Let me tell you something: I don't care how much you "think" you know about creating a profitable website... because...

You Don't Know Shit

Compared To What

Each Attendee At My Seminar

Is Going To Learn!




You want to come... you gotta pay.

Period.

	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"Modest, Quiet, And
Soft-Spoken To The Core"


P.S.	
There is one extra thing about this dealybop which, if you are thinking about coming, might lighten your load a little...

All Paid Attendees Can
Bring One Extra Person...
At No Extra Cost!


So, if you truly are interested... and... you truly are a player... then please call my office at 1-305-534-7577 and leave a message for Sally. Tell her the best times I can return your call to give you the details, answer any questions you may have... and... I can verify you're the type of player who will benefit from attending. Of course, you'll also have to leave your name and telephone number.

If you have access to a fax machine, that'll speed up my response time to you. All you have to do is fax me at 1-352-861-1665 with your name, telephone number and the best times for me to return your call.

That's all folks.

Peace.



Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Financial Sodomy Inc.!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zdlk_financial_sodomy.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

You are now reading what can best be described as the first issue of the 2nd generation of The Gary Halbert Letter.

In what I now think of as the first generation of this newsletter, I wrote and published 118 issues. When I started, it was just me and a young lady named Paulette working out of a Dilbert-type cubicle on the penthouse floor of a large office building located at 9255 Sunset Boulevard near the boundary line of West Hollywood and Beverly Hills.

I'm somewhat proud of the 118 issues that make up the first generation of this newsletter. Taken as a whole, it is a rather astonishing body of work that has generated untold hundreds of millions of dollars for a surprising amount of people located not only here in the U.S. but also, all over the globe in more than 50 different countries. And, it will continue to do so, I believe, for many generations to come. True, much of what I have written was timely but, a significant portion of it is virtually... timeless!

Fundamentals don't change. After all, that's why they are called fundamentals. "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you," was good advice 2,000 years ago; it is good advice now... and...

It Will Be Good Advice
2,000 Years From Now!

However, even if fundamentals don't change, technology does. In fact, technology is changing so fast nowadays, it is having an enormous effect on us as a society. We can now communicate faster, sell faster, buy faster, lie faster, steal faster, sicken each other faster, get rich faster, go broke faster... and... most importantly... we can lose our way... faster than ever!

Never before has society been so well-informed... and... so bewildered. Everyone is going around saying "Information is King" and, "Access to information is what makes the difference between winners and losers." Not true. If it were true, everyone who owns a computer and has access to the web would be rich. Information is important but, it is just a tool. As far as success is concerned, there is only one element that is "king." It always has been "king," it is now, and, it always will be. What is this essential element that is at the core of all successful endeavors? Simply this:

Proactivity!

Proactivity is the real difference between winners and losers. Losers simply absorb information and, at best, they just react to it. Actually, these days, there's such an incredible glut of information, most of us are simply numbed by it. Winners, on the other hand, when they get good info... they act on it. And now, good info is easier and faster to get than ever before... and... therefore, a "proactive" person now has available to him, instant access to "information tools" that, if used properly, can help him succeed faster and on a larger scale than ever before.

Why am I going on and on so much about this? Well, guess what? Right now, as I write this, I have at my side a brand new GATEWAY 2000 PC. It's got an Intel 233 MHz Pentium processor with MMX Technology, an EV500 .28 Screen Pitch 15" monitor with a 13.9" viewing area, a super-fast TelePath modem with X2 Technology, a Canon BJC printer, a 16MB SDRAM and 512K Pipelined Burst Cache, two Esoniq Wavetable Audio (with Altec) speakers and a nifty, stand-up, desk-top microphone which lets me use my PC as a speakerphone.

This whole set-up costs only $1,499.00 and it's perfect for a person like me. As far as PC's go, it's truly a no-brainer. It's the electronic equivalent of going to McDonald's and ordering Value Meal #3. I connected all the parts together... all by myself... and I use this sucker every day. One guy, a true computer pro, said he'd never seen anyone start at ground zero and become computer literate as fast as me. (I guess he doesn't have any teenage kids.)

Sort of a surprise, isn't it? Actually, it's even more surprising to me. What has happened? Well, this has all come about because of a recent experience I want to tell you about: A few months ago, I get a call from an old friend who tells me he's working with some people on a really exciting new project and he's told everyone involved I would be the perfect person to create and oversee the marketing for this project. We arrange a conference call between myself, himself, and the other principals involved. In October, I had to fly to California because of my youngest son's wedding... and... that made it convenient for me to meet the CEO of this company in person at the Miramar Hotel in Santa Monica.

I was very impressed with this guy and, to make a long story short, I signed on board to do the marketing for his company.

What I did first was create a full-page ad that ran twice in the same month (December, 1997) in Investor's Business Daily. This turned out to be one of the most effective ads I've ever written. And, in order for you to better understand this story, I've enclosed a copy of that ad with this issue of my newsletter and, I need you to read it before I continue.

So, do it! Don't just sit there like a lump on a log staring at your navel. Unfold the ad and read it...

Right Now!

Zowie! Is that one bitch of an ad or what? Now listen: As you know, I'm not one to brag.... but... that ad produced an incredible response... and... I think it's fair to say it literally electrified the investment community all over the world.

OK, part of what I was hired to do for this company was to simply "hover" over everything  going on. Now, understand this: The first time this ad ran in Investor's Business Daily, it was strategically timed to appear as the company CEO was overseas with his "team" trying to impress bankers and other big time investors. In other words, part of the job of this ad (other than the obvious) was to be an effective tool in the "pitch kit" of this little team of vultures who were going after serious investment money. Anyway, as part of my job of "hovering," I decide to call the 800# mentioned in the ad a couple of days before the ad breaks. What I get is one of two things: Either a busy signal... or... some idiot on the phone who couldn't qualify for a job at McDonald's and can't even correctly pronounce the name of the company. Let alone talk intelligently to whomever was calling.

I call an old friend of mine, Laura Charles, and get her to drop everything else she's doing and fly to Nebraska where the 800# service is located, be a "Nazi Bitch" and whip them into shape. She did a magnificent job. She gets them to put on ten more operators, answer the phone live 24-hours per day and teaches them how to properly respond to the calls.

The ad breaks, the calls start flooding in and, thanks to Laura, the calls are all handled the way they need to be handled. Now, if you'll recall, near the end of the ad, the reader is asked to call the 800# and leave his name and address in order to receive a video featuring the inventor explaining what he has invented and the company CEO giving an overview of the company and its plans for expansion. That's not what I wrote in the first draft of this ad. In the first draft, it said something like, "There's an investment opportunity here but, it's not for the little guy. However, if you or your organization can invest $50,000 or more, this is a situation worth looking into."

That verbiage was eliminated because the company's attorney said it wasn't legal for this company to solicit for investors. His suggestion was to replace that part of the ad with a simple request for the reader to buy the product. I told him it would be idiotic to pay $14,000+ to buy a full page in IBD just to sell a consumer product that retails for $19.95 and, if that was the law, we ought to just cancel the ad. Well, the powers that be didn't want to just scratch that ad so, the ad ended up saying something about "being passionately committed to producing this amazing new invention... as fast as their financing will allow them to expand."

Alrighty, now we've got the ad copy approved by the company's wonderfully-astute attorney, we're getting the phones answered promptly and properly and, the day before the CEO and his team left for Europe, they shot the raw footage for the video that was going to be sent to all the callers who responded to the ad.

The video footage sucked.

It began with the "60 something" inventor trying to impress the young people assembled for the taping with a rap song about his product... and then... it went downhill from there.

Good God, what could possibly be in any adult person's mind that would make him think a video tape of him mouthing a rap song would impress a would-be investor? Whatever. It was obvious the video would have to be HEAVILY edited before it could be sent out so, I wrote a one-page letter to all the callers which said in part:


"The free video will be sent to you approximately 14 working days from now. The technicians are working out a few editing glitches and we'll rush the tape to you as soon as they are finished.

"However, if you (like me) are one of those 'got-to-have-it-now' people (when it comes to 'cutting-edge' info) and you don't want to wait for the video, please accept this as my personal invitation for you to call me... immediately... and I'll be more than happy to give you a summary of the information that will be on the video.

"Obviously, if you're one of the first to call, you'll have a head start on this valuable info over the people who won't have it until they watch the video. And, as you know, when it comes to business, the value of important, new information is in direct proportion to how fast you get it before it becomes 'common knowledge' to everybody else."



Now, of course, this dysfunctional company I was doing all this world-class work for didn't have anybody who could actually type this letter and get it mailed out... so... I had my trusty assistant, Theresa, get that job done.

Let's fast forward just a little bit in time. Now we are somewhere in the middle of January of 1998. The ad you just read has appeared twice in Investor's Business Daily. Thousands of calls have come in and been handled properly and all the names, address and phone numbers of the callers have been captured. Each caller has received a letter offering more info without having to wait to get the video. These people are hot to trot! They've read a full-page ad, responded to that ad... gotten a personal letter inviting them to call the company direct, responded to that letter... and...

They Can't Get Anyone In
The Company To Talk With Them!

These people don't care about the video. They want to invest in the company! They volunteer they are accredited investors (I'll explain the significance of that another time) and they have $50,000... or... $150,000... or more... they want to invest! They not only call... but... they are call back six, seven, eight times or more. We'll never know but, I believe that ad (which cost about $14,000) would have, if handled properly... generated around $150,000,000!

I flew to California to try to help these people. I stayed at the Oakwood Apartments in Newport Beach for an entire month. But, it was useless. The CEO was so screwed up, so dysfunctional and so obstructive to the growth of this company, it was impossible to help him. By ineptness and constant failure to keep his word, he was like a human tornado ripping through a trailer park of humanity leaving dozens of good people damaged, bewildered... and incensed. At first, I kept trying to clean up his messes. But... I couldn't keep up! I felt like a guy with a snow shovel running behind a team of Clydesdale horses with diarrhea trying to shovel up all the shit being left behind before more people started to drown in it.

It was hopeless. But, you know what? I now believe, from a financial point of view...

This Is The Best Thing
That Ever Happened To Me!

You see, what these people were trying to do was, take their company "public" so shares of stock in the company could be legally bought and sold on one of the major exchanges. Previous to this experience, I knew next to nothing about the process of "going public" and, I had almost no interest whatsoever in the stock market.

That's all changed now. What I've discovered is there is so much money to be made in the stock market... and... it can be made so easily, it is almost beyond belief. First, Americans have more money invested in the stock market right now than ever before. Currently, stock investments make up 28% of the total wealth of U.S. households. This has more than doubled just since 1990, when it was only 12%. Americans, now have, for the first time ever, more money invested in the stock market than they do... even in real estate!

Best of all, most people who invest in the stock market are "total financial idiots." They make most of their stock buying decisions based on the advice of their personal stock broker... or else... on the advice of high-priced stock market "experts." Stock brokers, in general, are not investment experts... they are salesmen. And, for the most part, they are stupid and/or unethical to an astonishing degree. Stock market "experts" are truly a joke.

Have you ever heard of the "Dartboard Index"? Here's the way it works: Every six months, staffers of the Wall Street Journal throw darts (literally) at a listing of all the stocks on the market. Then, they track those stocks to see how well an investor who bought those stocks (selected by the Dartboard) would have fared against the Dow Jones Index and versus a consensus of the expert's opinions. Here's the results for the last six months:

DARTBOARD PORTFOLIO	UP 6.5%
DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE	DOWN 0.7%
EXPERTS AS A GROUP	DOWN 14.1%

Think about it. These experts are among the most respected in the country. They include William P. Miller of IDS Equity Investors (his was the only stock pick that actually went up), Jeffrey Meyer of Brandes Investment Partners, and Christopher O'Keefe of Compu-Val Investments. These people don't come cheap! They, and others like them, are paid enormous amounts of money for advice, that seems to me... just plain silly. Ask any of these experts what makes a stock price go up or down and they'll give you what I consider to be totally "off-the-mark" answers. "The PE ratio was up," they'll say. Or, "The company has developed a new microchip or something else that solves a problem faster, easier and cheaper than ever before."

None of that is what makes a stock price go up or down. What does? It is the NEWS of some development. Get that straight in your head. It's not the development itself: It's the news of that development. Therefore, the way to win when you play the stock market is simply to know the news before anyone else! Imagine this: Imagine you know tomorrow there is going to be a "rave" story in the Wall Street Journal about how ABC Widget Company has (ready-to- market) a secret, new gizmo that turns ordinary tap water into champagne for less than five cents per gallon.

Guess what's going to happen to the price of ABC's stock when that story hits the front page of the Journal? It's not hard to figure out...

The Price Of The Stock Is
Going To Skyrocket!

Now, imagine this: You already know this article is going to appear in the Journal. In fact, you know the writer is going to be writing about it even before the writer knows it himself. In fact, you know about this development... even before... anyone in ABC Widget Company (including the CEO) knows about it. Let's say the stock is now selling for $10.00 per share and, you know it's going to jump up to at least $15.00 per share when the news breaks.

What do you do? Go out and buy shares in ABC and then cash in when the story hits? Not a bad idea. For $10,000 you could buy 1,000 shares... and then... the next day, you could sell at $15.00 per share and make $5,000 on your investment.

Sound good? But wait. What if you didn't buy those shares... but instead... you "optioned" them for about 5% of their value. Doing it like that would give you control of 20,000 shares. Then, the next day when you cashed in, your $5.00 per share profit (minus the 50 cents you paid for the option) would be $4.50 per share times 20,000 shares... which is...

$90,000!

How can this be possible? How can you know the news before anyone else, even the people who run the company... and how... can you know exactly when the news is going to break before anybody else?

I'm not going to tell you.

The most profitable money-making secret I ever came up with was the one that created the family crest company (Halbert's Inc.) which still exists today and has generated hundreds of millions of dollars. I came up with that idea back in 1968 and, it's taken me 30 years to come up with one that's even better... maybe even 100 times better.

However, even though I don't intend to tell you how this secret works, I will tell you how you can profit from it. I'm going to do it in almost every issue here on out in this 2nd generation of my newsletter. Why is this secret so much better? Because, with this one, you don't have to hire anyone, create anything, market anything or even talk to another human being. You know, the time has truly and finally arrived... when... it is actually possible to become a multi-millionaire while sitting in a canoe with nothing but a laptop PC, a modem and a cell phone!

However, I'm going to be more effective at teaching you about all this if you will do a little "homework." First, I want you to become aware of just how dishonest and unethical people who sell investments to the public really are. The best way you can do this (and it will leave no doubt in your mind) is to read a new book called F.I.A.S.C.O. subtitled "Blood In The Water On Wall Street" by Frank Partnoy and published by W.W. Norton & Company, Inc.  (ISBN 0-393-04622-2).

Just read it. You won't believe it. But, I believe it. After my recent experience with "Financial Sodomy Inc." in Irvine, California, I know this writer is not exaggerating. By the way, when you are trying to "go public" and/or raise investment money for what is to be a publicly-traded company, you need something called a "stock evaluation report" written by an expert. The one for "Financial Sodomy Inc." was written by a snot-nosed, 27-year-old kid in Aspen, Colorado who actually, for reasons unfathomable to me, is entitled to hold himself out to be an "Investment Banker."

You know what this guy's sophisticated, financial evaluation says the worth of this company will be in December of 1999? Just 24-months from when he created this truly "creative" official-looking report? How about more than...

One Billion And
700 Million Dollars!

That's pretty good, isn't it? After a careful and judicious analysis, this guy concludes this company... that cannot... at this time... answer its phones or even get a letter typed... is somehow going to "morph" into a debt-free company worth upwards of two billion in less than two years. That's like saying we're on the verge of having peace in the Middle East. (Lord, I've seen screwed-up companies before but, I've never seen anything like this where there was nothing but "chimps-in-the-cockpit.")

Anyway, I also want you to immediately read another book called WallStreet.com subtitled "Fat Cat Investing At The Click Of A Mouse!" This one's by Andrew D. Klein and published by Henry Holt & Company, Inc. (ISBN 0-8050-5758-7).

And, go get your silly ass a copy of the Jan/Feb issue of Internet Shopper which features a story on Online stock trading and compares 45 different Internet Brokers. By the way, one of the pioneers, and one of the best of the online brokers, is located at http://www.etrade.com.

Plus, there's one special web site I want you to log onto and surf around a little. Just have your search engine find "IPO CENTRAL." I know, I know. This is all starting to sound like "work"... but... trust me, there just might be a big payoff here. So, stop bitching and boot up. And, here's even more web addresses with which I want you to become familiar: http://www.firstcall.com; http://www.investools.com; http://cybersurfing.com and finally http://www.investor.com.

Now, I gotta tell you, the main reason my trusty GATEWAY 2000 sits at my side... is... because it is such a superb tool for the research I now do on the stock market. But, there is a second reason: You know, there's hundreds of web site experts out there now... that will... for a hefty fee, set up a web site for you so you can make huge profits on the Internet. The problem, of course, is none of these jerks actually know how to make a profit on the Internet; they only know how to make a big profit by lying to you about how they can teach you how to do it. People who say they can do this remind me of people who sell ad space in the yellow pages. Their pitch is, they can help you design your yellow age ad so you will make mucho fungolas.

The problem, of course, is they haven't a "clue" how to actually make a yellow page ad profitable; they only know how to sell space in the yellow pages. A web site can be a profit center... but only... if it is designed by a real salesman! And, the fees now being charged by "image" advertising idiots are getting so outrageous that someone (and I guess that's gonna have to be me) needs to step in and lay a little sobriety on everyone involved.

There's a company in Irvine, California called "Electronic Media Communications" or "EMC" for short. They offer to do all kinds of electronic publicity including preparing television press kits, arranging television news story placements, creating satellite media tours, video news releases, radio media tours, radio news releases, radio public service announcements, getting your story on the various wire services... plus... various other services including helping you set up a web site. Here, word-for-word is the part about web sites written in one of their recent multi-page proposals:

 



"WORLD WIDE WEB SITE

"As we all know, the World Wide Web has become the fastest growing medium of all time. By the year 2000, more than $200 billion dollars of commerce will be conducted on the Internet. With health and health related topics being one of the top 5 subjects of the Internet and WWW, we would like to recommend that Seychelle develop a considerable presence on the Internet.

Web Site Development, Hosting and Maintenance

"EMC proposes to develop, host and maintain one of the most substantial sites on the WWW dedicated to information about drinking water. This site would be designed in such a way as to provide information of interest to consumers, retail buyers and the media about Seychelle and news and information about water quality throughout the United States.

"Conceptualization, Content Preparation,
Photography, Art Direction, Programming,
Audio and Video Serving:	$150,000
"Monthly Hosting and Maintenance:	$ 30,000 (per year)

Internet Publicity And Promotion

"Once the site is developed, the EMC New Media publicity and promotion department would promote the site and Seychelle as a whole throughout the Internet and WWW. This service would include on-going promotion in all search engines, data bases, indices, news groups, bulletin boards, and through 'covert infiltration in chat rooms,' etc. All of these services would be combined with media relations programs with the on-line versions of traditional media such as USA Today Online, CNN Online, etc.

"Complete Online
PR Services: 	$42,000
(35 hours)@ $100 per month)"




Well now, let's see: If my math is correct, all these good folk want is $222,000 to create, maintain and publicize a web site. Gosh, they must be pretty good at it, huh. Oh wait! I see on their letterhead, they have a web site themselves. I bet it's a doozy. It's http://www.emcnews.com. Hmn, maybe before I go any further, I should boot up my trusty GATEWAY and see whatever it is these electronic wizards have created for their own company.

So hang on a minute. Sir Gary of Halbert is going on-line. (I never thought I would ever write or say those words.)

Wow! What a web site! It's got color! It's got words! It's got... uh... let's see... well, it's got color and uh, it's got words. My guess is, the creation of this web site ought to have cost... oh say... maybe a dozen pizzas and a couple of 6-packs of Coke for some geeky high school student. And just look at the roster of big corporate clients listed on their web site who have retained these wizards for web site creation and their other services. You know, I'm in the wrong business. I work my ass off to create multi-page letters and long copy ads that actually sell stuff at a profit... as opposed... to those heavily credentialed (truly) pros who get paid zillions to create vapid, good-for-the-client's-ego, "image-building" ads that are about as far from a good sales pitch as Bill Clinton is from being "Husband Of The Year."

Stay with me. In my next issue of this 2nd generation of my newsletter, I'm going to start giving you the true scoop on how to make money with your PC, how to play the stock market with a truly unfair edge... and... the sober way to create a profitable web site.

Does this mean I'm switching over to making this a stock market and/or electronic marketing newsletter... instead of... the stuff I usually write about? No, it only means I'm going to add these topics to what I already write about. I'm still the same Gary Halbert you've learned to love and to hate, the guy who both inspires and frustrates you... but... I'm out of the bag now. I'm loose, running around and...

I'm On-Line & Dangerous!

You just wait.

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S.	

I'm going to do some price testing and this 2nd generation of my newsletter is likely to be much more expensive than the 1st generation. But, that's only for new subscribers. Lifers are still Lifers and, anyone who is now or ever has been a subscriber to this newsletter can still renew (whenever it comes time) for the same low price.

And finally, there's something else I need to tell you. I have made a decision I should have made years ago. What I've decided to do is... I've decided to sell this newsletter... and... I'm going to sell it right away!

Why am I doing this? Is it because I am tired of writing this newsletter? Not at all, you see, what I am really tired of is...

Not Writing This Newsletter!

Writing this newsletter is what I can do better than I can do anything else. But you know what? It seems like I spend about 5% of my time writing it (lately, it's been 0%) and 95% of my time trying to do something I have no talent for whatsoever. Namely: Running a business.

To which, a lot of people have said: "That's easy to fix Gary. All you need is to have a good manager and turn over all the details of running the business to him." Sounds good.  But, in reality, it doesn't work out very well. For two reasons: (1) Often the person who says he will run the business is, in fact, NOT competent to do so. (2) And secondly, even if the person is competent, I will interfere with his ability to do a good job. The truth is, if a general manager is still under the power of the person who actually owns the company... and... said person with the power is (like me) "functionally challenged"... there isn't a prayer of the company growing the way it should. Guys like me don't need good guys to run their businesses for them. No.

Guys Like Me Need
To Be Kicked Out Of
Their Own Businesses!

You know what I would do if I didn't own this newsletter? It's simple: I'd spend 20 times as much time writing it as I do now... plus... writing a continual flow of fresh sales letters and print ads to promote the newsletter. Then, this already pretty damn good letter would be a masterpiece every month. And, the people who own and run it would get seriously rich. You know, I doubt there's any newsletter... or... even any other publication of any nature that has been as profitable per reader as this one. Also, I don't know of any other profitable publication where the writer of it has been so indifferent to promoting it. Here's the way I work: I dream up a way to promote this newsletter or some other product. Next, I make a marketing test... and... if the test turns out to be profitable...

I Drop The Project!

This newsletter, in the right hands, would have 100 times as many subscribers as it does now. I haven't mailed a subscription pitch in years. I never bother to ask people to renew. It's amazing how much money I would make just by mailing a renewal pitch to my expires.

To whom am I going to sell this newsletter? I don't know exactly but, I know I only want to sell it to one or more people who have been reading it for a long time and know the nature of it. I am not going to change my writing style. If I want to write "I bet Bill Gates never had a good piece of ass in his life," that, by God is what I'm going to write.

What's the price going to be to whomever ends up buying it? Not as much as you might think. I don't care nearly as much as how much I get "up front" as I do about how much of a bankroll the buyers have to mail letters and run ads to get new subscribers. You see, I'm going to make my money from taking a percentage of sales... and... therefore, I want the people who end up owning this letter to... promote it like crazy!

It gets worse. Whatever person or group of persons who end up buying this letter are going to have to agree in writing to the following:

 


1.	No one will ever have the ability to censor a single word I write. If I want to write the word "shit", I'm gonna write it!
2.	Theresa, who has stayed with me for eight years already, will be guaranteed her job... for life!
3.	All the mechanical shit (God, it feels so good to write "shit") will be handled by Kyle Hunter in Santa Ana, California. You know, there's lots of people who say they can handle all the details of a big marketing campaign but, Kyle is the only person I've met (I've known him for 11-years) who, not only can do it all... but also... who is honest! (Translation: He's the only lettershop owner I know of that, for sure, will not steal a client's postage money.) Here's what Kyle can do:
	a. Print, stuff, stamp, seal, address and mail the sales letters.
	b. Take care of all the credit card processing.
	c. Fill all the orders.
	d. Keep the mailing list up-to-date.
	e. See that everyone involved gets an honest accounting.
	Kyle is the only person I know who can truly offer "one-stop" shopping for a mail order entrepreneur. By the way, so far, he is responsible for sending out more than 300,000,000 pieces of mail. On one diet promo I wrote, Kyle was sending out 125,000 pieces of personalized mail... per day! If you're in the mail order/direct-response business in any way, you need to know this guy. Here's his address, company name, and phone number:
	

Kyle Hunter

Specialized Mailing Services

3011 Shannon Street

Santa Ana, California  92704

(714) 444-2284


4.	And finally, even though I don't know who is going to end up owning this newsletter, I do know who it is I want to set up the deal. His name is Joe Polish, and he's the guy you should contact if you are interested. He's a fair guy, he understands the business and, I trust him to see everyone involved gets a square deal. To avoid playing "telephone tag" the best thing is to simply FAX Joe and give him your name, personal phone number and tell him the best time to give you a call. His FAX number is...

(602) 967-5847

Why don't I have interested people contact me directly? It's simple. Because then, it'll just be another example of me trying to do something I'm not qualified to do which is set-up a business deal. I don't want any part of that stuff anymore. All I want to do now is...

I Want To Write!

And that's all. I'm already working on my next issue and I am not going to let myself get derailed again. There's too much at stake here. Not only do I have 12-years of newsletter material to sell, I've got 12 years of PROVEN back-end products, like books, reports and audio and video tapes of seminars. When you combine that with what I'm now producing, (including some truly electric, ELECTRONIC-MARKETING SEMINARS) you're talking about a deal where...

It Would Be A Damn
Shame To Let Even
Gary Halbert Screw It Up!

 


P.S.#2	Do you think maybe I wrote all that stuff about "Financial Sodomy Inc." in Irvine because I'm a disgruntled ex-employee? Not at all. They were paying me $3,700 per week plus a company car, a company apartment and, all my expenses. Not only that, they liked my work so much... they offered me an immediate $2,000,000 bonus to stay.

I swear that's true. You know, the CEO still can't figure out why I left. I certainly didn't do it because I'm so flush that I don't really have any use for a measly two million smackers. I'm not flush at all. But, unlike lawyers, investment bankers and stock brokers, there's some shit so revolting... even I can't do it for money!

I'd rather die broke living on the street in a cardboard box with nothing but a legal pad and a ball point pen (I still don't write with a PC even though I can type)... while... writing this newsletter the best I can... than... live in a penthouse, wear a three-piece suit... and... pay for everything by facilitating deals that make me want to puke.

Aw nuts, I'll just play it out and whatever happens, happens.

Peace.



Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Gary Halbert Letter|Write Killer Copy

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zdzz_the_suck.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

No chit chat. Instead, we're going to dive right into our next lesson on "How To Write Killer Copy."

Remember last month how I gave you 80 headlines and, told you to write out those headlines (in your own handwriting) on 3"x5" index cards? And, how I also told you to use an el cheapo recorder and a small camera to cheaply capture more current headlines from magazines and other publications?

I hope you took me to heart and did those things. You're a dumb bunny if you didn't. Assuming you did complete this menial chore, I'm here to tell you, you have at least begun the process of writing copy "The Halbert Way."

Alrighty then, let's assume you have a job of writing copy to accomplish, either for yourself or a client. What is the first step you should take?

The answer is easy: The first thing you do is, take approximately 150 of your "headline cards" and read each one as you deal them out in front of you, like you would deal a deck of playing cards.

Can you guess why this is your FIRST step? It matters not... 'cause... I'm gonna tell ya. The reason you do this first is...

To Prime Your Mind!

This is a mechanical exercise to get your old noggin percolating. Pro copywriters don't have time to wait for inspiration. What pros do is follow mechanical, drone-like procedures... which literally force... breakthrough ideas to energize!

Reading, dealing out... and yes... touching and fondling... those headline cards is a superb way to start this process.

OK, suppose you've done this first step. Your mind is awake and stimulated... plus... your brain has just ingested a healthy portion of "killer copywriting nutrients."

What do you do next? The answer is, you do what I, Sir Gary of Halbert, privately think of as...

"The Suck!"

"The Suck" is where you take the product or service you have to write about and examine it from every conceivable angle. As you do this, you take notes... and... you number those notes. Take notes on everything pertinent. Take notes on everything interesting. Take notes on things that pop into your head (like ideas... random thoughts... or even questions).

Listen: One of the 10 best business books ever written is "How To Outfox The Foxes"... which... was written by a man I greatly admire, Larry Williams. If you are in business in any way, shape or form and, you haven't read this book, you are truly missing out on some amazing business secrets. It is published by CTI publishers and you can get a copy by calling (619) 756-0421.

Do it. You're a dunce if you don't.

I just finished re-reading that book for maybe the 7th time... and... this time, I took notes. I'm not writing an ad for this book (Larry has written an excellent one himself)... but... I took the notes anyway. I wanted to come closer to "owning" the incredible secrets it revealed. And, even though I am not writing an ad about this book, those notes I took are exactly the same notes I would have taken if I were, in fact, writing an ad. They were the same notes I would have written as I would have tried to "suck" every morsel and nugget of knowledge I could from this invaluable tool. Some of my "nugget notes" will have meaning only for me. Others will be immediately understandable and make sense to you.

In any case, I am herewith going to write all the notes I "sucked" from "How To Outfox The Foxes" to give you an idea of what a "Completed Suck" looks like: Off we go!

    1.  How bad is it?

    2.  Do you feel honor bound to pay?

    3.  Who doesn't get sued?

    4.  Story of rich guy with daughters

    5.  Buy a house in Florida

    6.  More lawyers than...

    7.  IRS cancer story, p. 2

    8.  This is a guideline; an idea sparker to get you thinking

    9.  Why success is scary

   10.  Be a shitty target

   11.  Hah! You are going to assume the worst case scenario

   12.  Be willing to walk

   13.  You own only an option

   14.  Lawyers should be used for the intimidation factor

   15.  Doberman dogs

   16.  Who can you bring to diffuse?

   17.  Have someone who doesn't owe, offer to pay

   18.  Get better collection results by befriending

   19.  Look like a no-profit street guy

   20.  Assume the absolute worst and think it out

   21.  You will be ripped off and treated unfairly

   22.  Threaten to put up billboards

   23.  Embarrass them into compliance; write an ad

   24.  "If payment in full is not received within 30 days of installation, all product warranties will be null and void"

   25.  You gotta give them justification

   26.  Have lawyer send copy of his letter to you

   27.  Look for a "tell"

   28.  Like holding a silver cross in front of a vampire

   29.  What counts is how well prepared you are emotionally

   30.  The tremendous power that exists in sitting still

   31.  Paint a picture of how exhausting and time-consuming it is going to be

   32.  My how they change... into a fire-breathing dragon

   33.  Buzzards: Who do they go after?

   34.  TRAP THEM!

   35.  Your job is to discourage

   36.  If something is written, no other testimony is allowed

   37.  The better you describe, the better your results

   38.  Snakes in the backyard

   39.  Ask Theresa about mailing

   40.  Loophole lawyer expert

   41.  "The only way I can feel comfortable about it is if..."

   42.  Rabbits are ridiculous

   43.  Life insurance trick on page 31

   44.  Dance your way out of this seemingly-never-ending law

   45.  Getting outside the legal system

   46.  Getting down in the gutter with a person who is basically amoral

   47.  In most cases, their ethics are non-existent

   48.  Hire criminal lawyers for civil disputes

   49.  Right or wrong, you are with the mongrel dogs and, whether you win or lose, you are going to go home with some fleas

   50.  One lawyer with a briefcase can steal more than a thousand thieves with guns

   51.  The clock and the calendar create the demise

   52.  Have Charo deal with Guttenmacher

   53.  Ferret out the loopholes

   54.  Ask the legal secretaries who work in courthouse

   55.  Hire best lawyer for something small so he can't work against   you - WHOA!

   56.  See Michael Milen stuff on p. 55

   57.  All it takes to file a lawsuit is a filing fee

   58.  (Sorry for the redundancy)

   59.  Advertising Genius Reveals How To Trade Stocks On The Internet

   60.  You can't remember

   61.  You make sure the fishermen against you get no fish by taking the fish out of the pond

   62.  Everything destroyed in hurricane

   63.  Don't chase money you were "fairly" cheated out of

   64.  It is easier to create than re-claim

   65.  More people end up hating their law firms than the mate they marry

   66.  The start is always starry-eyed and positive

   67.  If you do not understand the charges, you cannot be tried

   68.  A life lived outside the normal range of caution

   69.  I realize there are some strong differences between us regarding _____ and that shortly we will be filing lawsuits against each other -- suggest to your client -- cc peeps important

   70.  Lawsuits are the pits - p. 74

   71.  Since we don't see eye-to-eye

   72.  No touchable assets

   73.  Everyone wants to move toward pleasure and away from pain

   74.  Build a multi-story house of pain

   75.  Imagine how you would feel

   76.  At all. Ever.

   77.  Without a victim there is no crime

   78.  It is illegal for anyone to tell you a bank is going to close

   79.  You can beat your chest and complain, but is does no good. Never.

   80.  The more debt you have, the worse off you are. To be in debt is to be in trouble. To be debt-free is one of life's greatest joys.

   81.  If you want to file, move as far away as possible from your biggest competitor. (I have your arena.)

   82.  I will have to be altered for your facts, your deal and your state laws. It is, however, a beginning.

   83.  A shallow pocket's image

   84.  We are both taking risks here as we did when we left our homes

   85.  We could both be wiped out by unforeseen circumstances

   86.  What I want to know is what kind of man you are. I don't want to be in a game/business with people that should not be there.

   87.  It tells how much of a man (player) you are

   88.  Attorney-caused logjams

   89.  Any communication you have with a lawyer must be presented to his client

   90.  Place a loose "time threat" -- "for one last time"

   91.  They can envision the deal evaporating

   92.  Until this lawyer is out of the deal, we will take no phone calls, write no letters or move forward in any way (cc: client)

   93.  Shake hands on it before you give deal for lawyer to formalize

   94.  Put down in writing just the way you want it to be -- then I'll read it and tell you whether or not I can live with it -- NOTE: Explain you are exploring other options

   95.  One step beyond "notes on the napkin"

   96.  Garbage lawsuits are rampant -- Gary Waltershied

   97.  Arrange to be sued in a county many miles away and very rural

   98.  Truth: The perfect disguise

   99.  Have judgments against you so a new creditor is too far back in line

  100.  How To Protect Yourself Against All Lawyers... Including Your Own Attorney!

  101.  To buy Nevada Corp. call 702/883-8484

  102.  Bond must read pages 118 and 119

  103.  Nevada doesn't even share info with IRS

  104.  As much as 80% of estate can be stolen by a sharp lawyer and the government

  105.  Read about family partnerships on page 122

  106.  Creditor may have to pay taxes on nothing

  107.  Garlic in front of vampires

  108.  Call (or visit) Bob Berends (714/771-7584)

  109.  Legal Solutions in Chino, California

  110.  Read ads in Quest, P.A.L. Investigations and CDB Infotek for info on asset searches (ask Charo)

  111.  Hide money in state where you don't live

  112.  Take nothing of value with you to a creditor's meeting

  113.  People jump at cash; it's a "bird-in-the-hand"

  114.  How To Give Yourself A Lawyer Bypass

  115.  Hide your tracks

So hey, I bet after reading last month's headlines... and... this month's "nugget notes"... your beady, rat-like little mind is starting to wake up, isn't it? If I've done my job right, your creative juices are beginning to flow and your mind is beginning to...

Throw Off Sparks!

Aha, I gotcha going, don't I? But... what do you do with all this creative energy? How do you harness it and begin to fashion a starting draft of your message?

Back off! Don't be so damn pushy! You'll get that... in my next issue. But, in the meantime, just for practice, why don't you get your mitts on a book you think is valuable... and... do "The Suck" on that book yourself? Will you? If so...

You'll Be Coming Alive
And Starting To Thrive!

So, I'm hokey. Up yours.

 

                             

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"Unchanged, Untamed, and Unashamed"

 

P.S. Last month I offered my readers the chance to buy my new report called, "Gary Halbert's No Bullshit Guide On How To Prevent Every Type Of Scum Known To Man From Getting His Or Her Hands On Any Of Your Hard-Earned Fungolas!" at a price of $100.00 payable only by check. If you are one of the lucky people who has read that report, you now know certain secrets which can be used to make your money and other forms of wealth virtually bullet proof.

        If you don't have much money or wealth, it really doesn't matter whether you know these secrets or not. However, if you do have a considerable net worth, you are an absolute imbecile if you don't spend the lousy 100 bucks needed to obtain this amazing information. I doubt you will ever find wealth-protecting secrets as powerful as these in any other publication ever written. If you've got anything whatsoever worth protecting, spend the measley $100 and order this report. That $100, if you get in a crunch, can literally save you millions!

        To get your copy, just make a check for $100 payable to me, "Gary Halbert" and send it to the address at the top of this letter.

        And get this... I now have another report which is...

Outside The Scope Of This Newsletter
Which I Am Also Offering For Mere Pennies!

        Here's some background...

        One of my best friends, Dave Kekich, has been paralyzed from the chest down for 21-years due to a freak occurrence which happened to him in a gym in Redondo Beach, California. Dave wants his life back and he wants to live forever. Accordingly, he has made himself a multi-millionaire and devotes all his energy to health and longevity research.

        Some of the secrets he has uncovered are unknown to nearly 100% of American doctors. I have participated in this research and, I too, have made some powerful discoveries. Matter of fact, if you attended one of my seminars 10 or 15 years ago and, if you saw me now... you would find I look approximately 20 years younger now... than I did 15 years ago. This is due to a number of factors and the genuine discovery of a certain drug (you can get it by prescription and it's 100% safe) which is the closest thing to the Fountain of Youth that exists in the world today.

        Approximately 30-days from the time you are reading this, I will be old enough to qualify for Social Security. In spite of that, my current girlfriend is less than half my age and I had to show her my driver's license to get her to believe I really am a "living fossil." Another lady who attended one of my recent seminars, was having sex with me three to five times a day on the same days I was giving the seminar. I'm not going to tell you which seminar it was because I want to protect her identity. I do not tell you this to brag or convince you I am some sort of stud. I just want you to know that since the discovery of several powerful secrets... especially the aforementioned drug (no, it is not growth hormone) I seem to be aging backwards.

        If you're over 35 years old (hell, even if you're not) you need to know about all this. It has literally turned my life around. Maybe all this will stop working some day... but... for now... I sure am a happy camper! (So is my girlfriend.)

        Want to know all about it? All you gotta do is send me a mere 97 smackers and you'll get this new report by return mail. By the way, the title of this new report is...

"How To Slow Down, Stop And Even Reverse
The Aging Process And Regain and Increase
All The Youthful Energy, Vitality And
Sexual Passion You Once Enjoyed!"

        Do you have any idea what this is like? It's like taking a new form of Viagra that affects your entire body... instead of... a mere six or seven inches of your anatomy. I kid you not. Order if you're interested.

        Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zjlz_sweeten_profits.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

      Image.

      You need to improve yours. That's what everyone says. There are books that tell you how to do it. Classes too. Even seminars.

      But you know what I teach people at my seminars? It is this: Improving your image is fine but, the main thing you need to do is...

You Need To Improve Your Substance!

      Concentrate on making your product or service better. Make it as good as you possibly can. Strive ever and ever to... create more value! Value sends out ripples of positive karma throughout the marketplace and the reverberations of same come back to you in satisfaction, self-esteem and a never-ending river of mucho fungolas.

      Let us get practical. In my last seminar (the "Seminar-By-The-Sea"), I revealed a virtually fool-proof formula that could be used by almost anyone in the audience to very quickly make huge wads of money. And you know what? This formula could also be used by you if you could somehow persuade me to reveal it to you in this newsletter.

      What's that? You say I damn well better reveal it? You say that's what you subscribed to this letter for in the first place? You say I should stop screwing around and get on with it?

      OK, OK, don't be so testy. Here's the scoop. Look, let's pretend for a moment that, right now, you don't have a product and you're looking around for something to sell. Well, if that's the case and you come to me and ask my advice, it will almost always be...

Sell Paper And Ink!

      I'm talking about newsletters, books, special reports and so on. In fact, in the 12/5/87 issue of this newsletter I revealed exactly how to create such a product. That information also appeared in Section 2 of my book, "How To Make Maximum Money In Minimum Time."

      In any case, let's say you do want to create such a product but you want to make sure it will sell like hotcakes. Let's say, for example, you have decided to sell a book or special report on how to buy cars, boats and houses from the U.S. government at dirt-cheap prices. What we're talking about here is all the "inside tricks" of going to government auctions and making acceptable "low ball" bids on merchandise which has been seized from drug dealers and other criminal scum.

      There's a lot of books and special reports on this subject and...

That's Good!

      It's good because it proves there is a hot market for this kind of info. Listen: Don't be afraid of competition. If you create enough value (as I do in my newsletter and seminars), then, there is no competition! You see, what you are about to learn here is how to create a better, much more valuable book or report on this subject and also... how to create a better, much more valuable (and virtually fool-proof) advertising campaign to sell this improved product.

STEP 1:       You must get every other ad you can find that offers such a book or product.

      You can find these ads in all the tabloids like the "National Enquirer," "Midnite Globe" and so on. You'll also find them in the opportunity magazines such as "New Business Opportunities," "Entrepreneur," "Income Opportunities," "Wealth Secrets," "Salesman's Opportunity," etc., etc., etc. You'll also find such ads in local newspapers, real estate magazines and, if you are on the right mailing lists, you'll find a lot of these "seized property" pitches in your mailbox.

      And don't forget the classifieds! There are at least a half-dozen guys selling hundreds of thousands of books and reports on this subject through this medium. (By the way, if you want to explore the opportunities in classifieds, you should call John Eger at (214) 352-0612. John spoke at my last seminar and he is a very knowledgeable, very helpful and very likeable guy.)

      So anyway, as I said, the first thing you do is get your hands on as many direct mail promos and space ads as you can that are offering books and reports on how to buy merchandise that has been seized by various government agencies.

STEP 2:       You must order each and every one of the books and reports offered by the ads and direct mail pieces.

      Look, don't you fight me on this. This is some of the cheapest and most valuable research you can ever do. You know, after you've done everything I've suggested so far, you'll probably have spent less than $300 on all this material.

STEP 3:       You must go through every book and report you receive in the mail and extract out every nugget of info you find.

      Put each individual piece of info on its own separate 3x5 index card. By the way, by the time you are done, you should have hundreds of index cards. What you are going to discover is all of these books have a lot of material that overlaps with all of the other books. That's the nature of the beast. However, each of these books and reports will probably have some unique material that none of the others have.

      OK, so now what you do is, you use all this "ammo" to create a super book or report that contains every single nugget of good info found in all those others. What you will have when you are finished, is the most comprehensive body of info possible on this particular subject.

      But wait! We're not finished yet. Not by a long shot. What I want you to do after you've done all this is, I want you to go back and re-read that back issue of mine I mentioned earlier, the one dated 12/5/87. Also, you should go back and re-read the issue dated 4/6/89. Both of these back issues will give you detailed, step-by-step instructions on how to come up with "unique twists" when you are working on a project like this. And, of course, what you do with these "unique twists" is you add them to your already comprehensive manuscript to make it even more valuable.

      What's that? What are my poor ears hearing from you? You say all this seems like an awful lot of work? Don't despair. It's not that much work. Besides, the amount of money you can make on a project like this can make the time and effort you put in the project seem truly insignificant.

      Also, if you so choose, you can hire someone to do all this for you. Someone like Lisa Morrice (213) 398-5147 or Brad Peterson (213) 542-8410 or Loretta Duffy (818) 763-5652 or perhaps any of a dozen talented writers who advertise their services in "Writer's Digest."

      Whatever. In any case, let us assume for the moment you have followed all these directions and you now have a super, duper report on how to get dirt-cheap houses, boats and cars that have been seized from drug dealers, etc. What's next? What's next is, you are now going to improve the substance and value of your offer. Here's what you are going to do:

1.     You are going to get a celebrity to "star" in your advertising.

2.     You are going to hold all checks, money orders and credit card charges for 30-days before you deposit or process them.

3.     You are going to offer a conditional double-your-money-back guarantee.

      Let us discuss all this. First, how to go about getting a celebrity to star in our advertising. Well, I gave exact and explicit instructions on how to do this in the 9/1/88 issue of this letter (that info also appears in Section 4 of my "Maximum Money" book). Therefore, the first thing you should do is re-read that issue. However, to get you started right now, you can...

Call Don Camp... (213) 281-6970

Call Ingles, Inc... (213) 852-0300

Call The Tarkenton Speaker's Bureau... (404) 231-1132

      All three of the above are pipelines to celebs and can discuss your needs with you intelligently. What you want is a celeb you can feature in your ads and on the cover and in the forward of your book. You want the right to use the celebrity's picture also, not just his or her name. OK, let's say that without a celebrity, the headline of your ad reads something like this...

How To Get Cars And Houses

That Have Been Seized

From Drug Dealers And Other Criminal Scum!

      Not a bad headline, eh? But, man oh man, if you want your sales to explode, change it to something like this...

Have you heard about this?

Famous Movie Star Reveals How You Can Get Dirt-Cheap Cars And Houses That Have Been Seized From Drug Dealers And Other Criminal Scum!

YEAH!                (picture of famous movie star)

         WHEW!

      And, after that headline, your copy begins like so... "Dear Friend, my name is Famous Movie Star and I want to tell you about a hot new report I just read that could be worth a small fortune to you. This report is called, 'Gary's Guide to Government Goodies' and..."

      Etc., etc. Now, what about that business of holding checks, money orders and credit card charges for 30-days? Listen, my friend, one of the main reasons people are reluctant to buy by mail is they are paranoid. They see their money disappearing down a black hole into a "Never-Never Land" where, even if they don't get what they ordered, they never get their money back!

      But, if they can post-date their checks and money orders for 30-days, then they have in their minds (and in actuality), some control over their money. They can cancel payment if they don't receive or are dissatisfied with your merchandise. This removes much of their anxiety and paranoia and makes them much more likely to give you an order.

      But wait! Isn't this M.O. going to result in a lot of bad checks? Aren't we living rather dangerously here? It depends. I believe if you truly deliver quality, the positives drastically outweigh the negatives. For example, I have recently sold 2,091 copies of my book, "How To Make Maximum Money In Minimum Time" using this idea of holding all payments for 30-days. And guess how many bad checks I got? Believe it or not, only 45 or, to put it another way...

Only 2.15%!

      Trust me, amigo, this is far fewer bad checks than are generated by most ads that do not offer the 30-day hold!

      But don't forget, my book delivers on every single promise I make in my advertising. If it did not, I expect my percentage of bad checks would be much higher.

      Onward. Let's talk about this business of double-your-money-back, OK? Look, when you offer this kind of "conditional" guarantee, said guarantee is predicated on the buyer actually trying the plan of action you reveal to him. Here's a true story: Once upon a time, I joined a health club and, after visiting the establishment just once, never went back again. What I discovered was that using all those machines and doing all that exercise was work. And that's not what I wanted. No. I wanted magic. So anyway, I had a friend at that time who was an attorney and he offered to pull some shenanigans and get my money back for me.

      But I said no. You see, they lived up to their part of the deal. The gym was there. The equipment was there. The instructors were there. In other words, they provided everything they promised. So, in my mind (and I still feel that way today), I didn't deserve the money back.

      Keep that in mind while I tell you another true story. (I can't remember whether I've written about this before or not. Oh well, such is life when you have CRS*). Years ago, I was called in as a consultant/copywriter to do some work for "Entrepreneur Magazine." At that time, they were having trouble with refunds on these "Start-Up Research Reports" which they were selling for around $30 to $60. And you know, they could hardly believe their ears when I told them to start offering a double-your-money-back refund. But see, I told them to make it conditional. I told them to merely ask the guy who bought one of their reports to just prove he at least made the merest stab at using the info. I told them to tell their customers they could get a refund just by asking for it on their company letterhead, stapled to which was one of their business cards and photocopy of their business license. They didn't have to jump through hoops. They just had to make an effort to at least start a business.

      The results? Sales went up and refunds ceased to be a problem.

      CAUTION: Do not misuse this technique. Don't insist your customer do something unusual to get a refund. Just insist he try using those exercise machines before he concludes your health club isn't worth the cost of membership.

      If you are unreasonable about this, if you make it too hard for your customers to get a refund, you stand an excellent chance of getting slammed around by some regulatory agency. Trust me, I know this to be true from personal experience because one of my clients had this problem.

      Here's an example of how not to do it. There's a guy who goes by the name of Don Carrington and who sells something called, "The Millionaire's Road To Riches" report which is about selling by mail. Here is what he tells his customers they must do in order to get a refund:

"1.    Send me a copy of the 'Globe' and 'National Examiner showing your full-page ad in it.

2.     Send me a photocopy of your advertising insertion order form certified as being received and acknowledged by them.

3.     Send me a signed sworn statement from your bank manager certifying you did not deposit $15,000 in your bank within 30 days of receiving your first order.

4.     Return the original mailing label from the package you received this material in, unaltered and unchanged.

5.     Return this material in salable condition.

6.     Package all of the above together, and send it to me by 'insured' first-class mail.

7.     These instructions must be followed exactly, and everything must be done within 120 days of receiving this material."

      Pretty cute, right? Actually, it's stupid. This guy, if he doesn't change his ways, is very likely to get his ass in a sling. The Federales, if they ever happen to read his refund instructions, are going to come down on him like a ton of bricks.

      And look, there's no need for this garbage! Let me tell you something. If you deliver value, if you deliver what you promise to deliver, then...

The Only People Who Will Ask For A Refund

Are Those Who Never Intended To Keep
Your Merchandise In The First Place!

      So, you don't have to ask them to do much. Just ask they do a little something. Get a few business cards printed. Apply for a business license. Go to the gym and use the equipment 5 or 6 times. Actually, try the diet for a week. These are reasonable requests, but what Don Carrington is doing is foolish, stupid and dangerous.

      Look, don't get me wrong. I'm not saying this Don Carrington is a bad guy. Also, I'm not inferring his report is of no value. I'm just saying he's misusing the idea of a conditional guarantee in a manner that, through personal experience, I know to be dangerous.

      Now, let's put all this together and see what we've got. First and foremost, we have...

An Offer With Proven Viability!

      That is supremely important. It is the bedrock foundation of everything else in this letter. Remember, you can't multiply zeros! All the celebrities in the world, all the tricks, gimmicks and strategies, all the strong guarantees, all the generous offers to hold checks 30, 60 or 90-days before processing... none of this amounts to a hill of beans unless you start with a proven offer.

      But hey, we did start with a proven offer. The proof of this, of course, is these "seized property" ads just keep running over and over.

      OK, this next part here should be interesting. What I'm going to do is make a few "educated guesses" on what all this "sweetening" will do to one of these promotions. My first guess is many of these ads pull in about 1-1/2 times ad cost. Let's say an ad costs $10,000. What that means is, according to my guess, it would be usual for one of these "unsweetened" ads to pull in $15,000 on that $10,000 expenditure. If the book sells for $12.50 plus $1.50 postage and handling to generate $15,000 in sales, the ad has to pull in 1,071 orders ($15,000 ннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннннdivided by $14.00). Now, let's say it costs $3.00 to print up the book, stick it in a padded envelope and mail it out book rate. So, the cost of processing 1,071 orders is 1,071 x $3.00 or $3,213. Therefore, our expenses (not counting overhead) are $10,000 to pay for the ad and $3,213 to fill the orders or a total of $13,213. Which, when deducted from our $15,000 gross sales, leaves us a gross profit (before refunds, etc.) of $1,787.

      Doesn't seem like much, does it? Rounded off, it's about an 18% return which will take about 90-days to be realized. But you know what? That's an annualized return of 72% which sure beats the stock market, doesn't it?

      No matter. Being the greedy capitalist pigs we are, we're not going to settle for this kind of chump change, now are we? No Sir! So now, let's see what happens (according to my guesses), when we sweeten up this little puppy. Here's what I think the sweetening factor (improvement in sales) will be from the three major changes we've discussed in this letter:

            CHANGE                        SWEETENING FACTOR

                 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

      1. Adding a celebrity                                                                       x 1.4

      2. 30-day hold on payments                                                            x 1.3

      3. Double-your-money-back guarantee                                           x 1.2

      OK, now remember, our unsweetened ad pulled in $15,000 so, let's multiply that by the SF (Sweetening Factor) of adding a celeb:

$15,000 x 1.4 = $21,000

      And let's take that number and multiply it by the SF of a 30-day hold on payments:

$21,000 x 1.3 = $27,300

      And let's take that number and multiply it by the SF of a double-your-money-back guarantee:

$27,300 x 1.2 = $32,760

      So now, my friend, let us cipher together and see what financial miracles our changes hath wrought. Since our gross is now $32,760, that means our ad is now pulling in 2,340 orders ($32,760 divided by $14.00) which will cost us $7,020 (2,340 x $3.00) to fill. Add this to our advertising cost of $10,000 and you can see that our expenses, sans overhead and returns, amount to $17,020 which, when deducted from our gross of $32,760...

Leaves Us A Profit Of $15,740!

      Yahoo! Now we're cookin', ain't we? Remember, the profit of the unsweetened ad was $1,787 which means we have upped our profitability 880%!

      AN IMPORTANT POINT TO REMEMBER: You do not have to be twice as tall to see twice as far. Just a few inches more in height will put your vision above the heads of all the rest of the mob. And so it is with response. You do not have to double your response to double your profit. Since the first big chunk of change you drag in goes to pay for your advertising and fulfillment expenses, you only have to "sweeten" your gross a wee bit (maybe by about 15%) to double your profit. However, in this hypothetical case, we have, by plugging in a celeb, a 30-day hold and a double-money-back guarantee... we have achieved enormous increase in net profit by slightly less than doubling our response.

      I wonder, my friend, do you realize the importance of what you have just read? I have given you the closest thing you'll ever get to a fool-proof money-making formula. I know, I know... it's not a "magic money chant" that will give you riches without effort. It's going to cost you something in time, money and effort. But the payoff... my Lord, the payoff for doing what I have just described could, very realistically make you a multi-millionaire who laughs at what used to be money problems.

      Think about it.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S. With this issue, I am sending you a free gift. It is a magnificent piece of art, suitable for framing, that will make a tasteful addition to your office decor. You'll find it inside sealed envelope #1.

        As far as sealed envelope #2 is concerned, please do not open it unless you are one of my "Inner Circle" Lifetime Subscribers. This is a "closed circuit" message for Lifers only who have not yet responded to my electrifying letter of June 29, 1990.

P.S.#2  I don't feel finished yet. I want to give you even more this month. So, let me ask you something: What do you think the guys who run those "unsweetened" ads do when they get an order?

            Well, what they do is, they wait till they have enough orders to justify sitting down at one of their stupid PC's to input all of the data. Then, they generate labels and, when they get around to it, they slap a label on a padded envelope and send out their books. That means that, from the day their customer answers an ad, about three weeks (minimum) goes by before that customer hears from the stranger to whom he has sent his money.

            Stupid! Stupid! Stupid!

            But not you. No Sir, that's not how you are going to take care of business. What you are going to do is this: You are going to get out a first-class letter to each of your customers the same day you get his order and tell him you appreciate his business and how smart he was to order your book which has already been shipped to him in a separate package.

            And... and... and... you're also going to tell him how you've got another related report hot off the press that, if he orders now, he can get a deal on and get a head start on a brand new way to make money.

            So, what's this new report going to be about? Well, I don't know. I can't do all your thinking for you. Maybe it's how to get deals on bank repos. Or how to make a killing buying diamonds from pawn shops (you can) or make money reading classified ads or... or... or whatever. The point is, if you do this and do it right, something like...

20% Of The People You Mail

This "Welcome Letter" To

Will Immediately Send You Another Check!

            Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright й 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## A Few Marketing Secrets Never Before Revealed!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zhll_marketing_secrets_revealed.htm

From:

South of Jewfish Creek

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

This issue is a continuation of my last issue.

Let's go over what I had to say in that issue:

1.  Y2K problems are going to disrupt our economy and create massive financial devastation.

2.  As this happens, millions of people are going to lose their jobs and/or businesses and join the ranks of "the scared shitless."

3.  It is hard to get people who are scared shitless to part with their money.

4.  Therefore, you should make as much money as you can... and... you should do it right away!

5.  The best way to do this is by using direct mail.

6.  The first step toward direct mail success is to order the SRDS mailing list book and read the descriptions of all the mailing lists available for you to rent.

7.  As you read these list descriptions, you should be on the lookout for big lists of PWM's which stands for "Players With Money."

8.  PWM's are the easiest people to whom you can market quality products and/or services.

9.  If you don't already have a high-priced, quality product or service, you should create an "information type" product.

10. You create this information type product by having an expensive seminar and recording it on audio and video tape.

11. After you've finished creating the product, you should write a long-copy, direct mail sales letter which will induce PWM's to purchase your info product.

12. Your info product should be very high priced and you should only let people buy it by check and you should insist all checks be postdated by  30-days.

13. Doing this will likely triple your refunds... but also... it will likely triple your sales!

14. When you do the arithmetic, you will find this method of selling to be much more profitable than the normal "payment-with-order" method of doing business.

15. It takes balls to do this.

 

Still with me? Good. I was going to stop writing if you weren't.

Mushing on: Look, I said doing business this way will likely triple your refund rate. But, I did not say it has to triple your refund rate. And, what we are going to do in this issue is examine various ways we can keep your refund rate as low as possible.

First and foremost...

You Need To Have

A Great Product!

A great product doesn't eliminate refunds but, it sure as hell cuts them way down. More than anything, creating a great product is a matter of doing a lot of work. If it would normally take 40 hours to create the type of information product you have in mind... consider putting 100 hours into the development of your product!

Do you have any clue how much work I put into the writing of each issue of this newsletter? Of course you don't. By the time I'm finished writing it, it reads so easily, it seems like I just "dashed" it off. Not true. The easier something is to read, the more work was put into the writing of it.

If you care, you'll try to get every nuance exactly right.

Remember in the last issue when I referred to you as "Fishface"? Before I settled on that appellation, I thought about referring to you as "Buckwheat," "Asshole, "Dork," "Numnuts," "Yo-Yo," "Friend," "Neophyte," "Student," and dozens of others.

But "Fishface" just seemed to fit, didn't it? It was just derogatory enough for you to know it truly was Gary Halbert writing to you... but... it had a flavor of "tongue-in-cheek" humor to it that reassured you I really do have affection for you and I'm trying the best I can to help you.

Incidentally, peppering these newsletters with "Buckwheat," "Fishface," "Numnuts," etc. dramatically enhances the learning experience. Those words are like a little "mental pinch" that keep you more alert, create a little "emotional jolt" and, liven up whatever message I'm trying to deliver.

But don't you try this. It's dangerous. Especially with new customers. I only use this as an example to help me explain... how... the more work you put into your writing, the more valuable the results will be.

Don't copy me. In fact, don't copy anyone. Concentrate more on content than delivery. If the content is there, you can "farm out" the job of putting it into words. However, without good content, the best writer in the world can't produce a first-class product.

You really can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.

Remember the Antin brothers? Their newsletters were such a blatant knock-off of mine, it dramatically weakened the perceived value of them to nearly all their readers.

Not only was their newsletter a knock-off, it was a bad knock-off. I don't hate those guys. I actually like them. But, reading their newsletters caused me pain. It made me...

Embarrassed

For Them!

Onward.

Not only should you have a quality product...

You Should

Deliver It Fast!

And, by fast, I mean fast! Use next day morning Fed Ex. Don't be an anal retentive like Mike Goldstein (Hi, Mike!) and think you are adding to your bottom-line by saving the $10.00 or whatever over what it would have cost you to deliver it by parcel post or UPS Ground.

What you are doing here is sowing "money tree" seeds. All smart people value time way more than money. Give your PWM quality... and... give it to him now!

Bonding!

Nothing is as overlooked by today's marketers as bonding. Get up close and personal with your PWM customers!

Call them the same day you get their order and thank them for doing business with you.

Call the day after they receive their product and make sure they got everything.

Here's a trick I learned from Sam Kendes, the most sour-faced man on earth. (Hi, Sam!) Check it out: You keep an atlas of the United States beside your phone. When you are talking to a customer from say... Akron, Ohio... you find out where Akron is in the Atlas (there'll be an icon of a bowling alley where the city is) and you say...

"Hey, I notice you're from Akron. Isn't that right near Barberton where Gary Halbert grew up?"

Look, if you do a little research, you can find out something interesting enough about the city (or a nearby city) where your PWM lives to get a conversation going.

This is an example of bonding.

Want another? You don't? Well, to hell with you then. I'll go ahead and tell you a little about my trip to Rio last year. First of all, there are seven women for every man. The women are all highly sexed and they will... WHAT? Oh, you do want another example of bonding? I'm sorry. I must of "misheard" you.

OK, you wait until a week has passed since your customer received your product. Then you call him and tell him you just received a shipment of what may be the world's best putters and you are sending him one free. No strings attached. (This assumes you are selling an info product about golf.)

Then, do it.

A week or two later, send him a totally unexpected, expensive gift like a large, hard-bound book that is a guide to the best golf courses in the world.

Bonding. It works miracles. And, the best bonding technique in the world...

Is To Sincerely Care

About Your Customers!

More ways to cut refunds...

Integrate A Celebrity

Into Your Product!

It's harder somehow to "stiff" Ernest Borgnine than it is to stiff you... an unknown, anonymous stranger. By the way, your celebrity doesn't have to be a star of stage, screen or TV. It could be the mayor of your town. Or maybe the police chief. Offer to donate $5,000 to his favorite charity if he will introduce your product on video.

Hey, now here's a really neat trick: Let's say your info product has to do with playing better golf. Have one of your golf pro's (preferably a "name brand" golfer like Chi Chi Rodriquez) send a personal letter to your customer referencing his town and the golf courses near him. Imagine getting a letter from Chi Chi that says...

 

Dear Mr. Everett,

I don't know if you've ever played the Fairlawn Divot Course on Market Street. But, since you live in Akron, I thought maybe you play there once in a while.

Anyway, if you ever do play there, watch out for the 11th hole. It's a par three, dog-leg-left and it's only 140 yards. But, since the wind there is almost always coming straight off the tee, the tendency for most golfers is to "underclub" the hole.

Usually, for 140 yards I use an eight iron but, when I'm playing Fairlawn Divot, I always use a seven iron on that darn 11th hole. Also, etc., etc., etc.

 

 

More?

Notify Your Customer Of

A Really Valuable Gift He

Will Receive Two Weeks From Today!

If you've been following the time-line I've outlined... this is... one full week after the date his check is cashable!

Hey, you never heard stuff this good from any other marketing guru, now did you?

Damn, I'm good. You know, when God made me...

I Think He Was Just

Showing Off!

Oh shut up, you humorless twit. Would you like for me not to be arrogant? Gee, then I could write vapid shit like Hershell Gordon Lewis or Jeffrey Lant. Oh, excuse me, that's DOCTOR Jeffrey Lant!

Now, there's a true case of "arrogance without substance." Strip away the initials after this idiot's name (which is all he's got to credentialize himself) and what you've got left is a virtual parody of professionalism. Call this guy often and tape the conversations. Then you'll have a product you can sell to people who create sitcoms and need tapes to play when they need to create a laugh track.

Hey, can I be bitchy or what? Mama always told me I had a highly developed feminine side. For what it's worth, I think DOCTOR Jeffrey Lant has a very highly developed "feminine side."

Enough. It's no fun to go after this guy. He's too easy a target.

Focus Halbert, focus! I can see all you readers out there waiting for my next morsel of wisdom. In my mind's eye, you look like little baby birds looking up at me with beaks open.

Never fear. I love you all. I really do. So, let's see if I can drudge up another "worm of wisdom"? Hah! How about this one?

You Form A Bond

With A Hungry Banker And

Make Arrangements For

Him To Give You

"Expedited" Check Cashing!

When your customers postdate their checks 30 days, they won't write "last day to cancel payment on check to Video Golf Instruction" on their calendar or day timer. People are careless. They don't play "heads up" ball with their personal lives. Don't you be sloppy! As they used to say in the MP's, "You need to 'snap shit' in all your business affairs."

Anything else? Lord, I could run on forever here. So, I'll give you one more morsel in my never-ending war to try and get your pathetic mind in gear.

Consider Selling

Your Receivables To

A "Factor"!

After you've got some history selling your info product, there are plenty of people (thousands) who would love to have you assign your postdated checks to them. Let's say, using what you've learned in this letter, you're able to reduce your refund rate to 15%. Let's say your factor gives you 70% of the value of checks. That's a great deal!

But why? We were talking about a 30% refund rate... and now... by using a factor, once again, we are only collecting 70% of our gross sales. But, there's a BIG difference. You see, now...

We Are Getting

Our Money

Immediately!

Which lets us expand our business much, much faster.

Aw, forget it. G'wan back to "Baywatch."

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"Modesty Personified"

 

 

P.S. I may write the best newsletter... but... I don't write the only really, really good one. If you're not reading Dan Kennedy's No B.S. Marketing Letter, you should be. He's got some brilliant observations. It's good stuff. (Even though he stole it all from me.)

     Just kidding, you dummy. You can (and should) subscribe to Dan's letter by calling (602) 997-7707.

P.S.#2 Would you like to hire me to speak in front of your group? I'm not a cheap date... but... I really deliver! If you're interested, call (305) 534-7577 and leave a message for Theresa (my Godsend) to call you back.

       That's it for this month. Go out and get'em, little fishie. Maybe the swim will be all upstream... but... succeed or fail, just making the attempt makes you a man in my eyes.

       Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## 27

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zfzs_pearls_of_wisdom.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

He might not know it but, a guy named Mitch Axelrod has written this month's issue of my newsletter.

What happened is, he was one of the attendees at my   "Patches of Light" seminar in Orlando... who... got to experience firsthand the pure unadulterated "pleasure" of suffering through a hot seat conducted by me and John Carlton. After Mitch got home from the seminar, he wrote an e-mail and sent it to some of his friends, one of whom then sent it to me.

I am reproducing it below (with just a tiny bit of minor "tweaking") because it's the best way I can think of to give you a glimpse of the information and wisdom the attendees received at my "Patches of Light" seminar:




Dear Friends,

Have you ever felt the white-hot heat of being roasted in front of 100 colleagues?

I’m not a big fan of criticism. Whenever I offer the point of view that "there is no such thing as constructive criticism" it’s always good for a stimulating debate among the purists who say there is no improvement without criticism.

Last weekend, I had the privilege of having 100 very smart and successful people collectively "criticize" then brainstorm one of our toughest marketing problems. I was in Orlando for the "Patches of Light" seminar hosted by legendary marketing expert Gary Halbert.

The two men at the front of the room leading the roast have had more marketing successes over the past 30 years than most of the top ad agencies. Between them, Gary Halbert and John Carlton are responsible for a billion dollars of products and services sold, and are considered two of the very finest copywriters and marketing minds in the world.

They attacked our marketing problem with double-barrel buckshot, and enjoyed every minute of blasting holes in our theory, approach, strategy and tactics. They sliced, diced and skewered every word I uttered. They roasted, toasted and barbecued until I was singed, then seared, then scorched. My butt is still on fire!

When it was over, I got a very nice and warm applause for standing in the fire. I suffered the slings and arrows to get to the breakthrough answers we needed. And, we got answers!

It was a "breakthrough" experience. I heartily recommend you do a "hot seat" experience IF you really want to break down barriers, bust through the BS, and break out to bigger and better possibilities. No real growth can occur unless and until we let go of existing thinking and the comfort zone of the status quo.

It’s not easy; but it’s well worth it. Are you ready to stretch?

I was gifted with the opportunity to spend three days experiencing major breakthroughs by being part of a dozen business-building hot seats, designed to generate solutions to people’s most challenging marketing problems.

It was a weekend with no handouts, no pontificating and no success BS.

Here was the entire agenda:

"Who Has A Marketing Problem?"

If you volunteered, the only condition for roasting was that you really wanted to solve your marketing problem. Don’t laugh; many people have big problems, but have no intention of listening to suggestions (even from experts) or doing what’s necessary to solve them.

Here Are 27 "Pearls Of Wisdom"
I Dug Up Last Weekend:

1.   Don’t worry about improving your image. Improve your substance. The world is starved for substance. Most people are working on image. Few work to improve substance. Those who do will stand head and shoulders above the rest.

2.   Fail fast. Drop losing projects immediately. After trying to find a solution to a marketing problem which simply didn’t exist, Gary Halbert wrote three words on the white board which most of us were thinking in our heads:

Drop This Project!

It’s not easy to let go of things we’re emotionally attached to, but it’s necessary to move on.

3.   Most people are self-absorbed. Appeal to their selfish side. Forget your point of view. It doesn’t matter. If you want to sell Johnny Jones what Johnny Jones buys... you MUST see Johnny Jones through Johnny Jones' eyes. What does he want more than anything?

4.   Gary said, "If I found the cure for AIDS, everyone would get it. How much money I make would not be an issue. When you discover something important enough, the goal is to make sure everyone who wants or needs it can get it. Shift attention from how much can you make to how many people can you help. The money will come."

5.   NOTHING is risk-free. LIFE is not risk-free. You’re a heartbeat away from a Christopher Reeves moment. If you can’t accept risk, you are living on the wrong planet. What risk can you take which might alter the quality of life as you know it?

6.   Hire experts. Don’t try to do everything yourself. Especially when it comes to the most important parts, including copywriting and crafting your sales message. Don’t spend a fortune on the unimportant things, then economize on the pivotal items. Know when to bring in the experts.

7.   Outspend the other guys. Many businesses do things on the cheap. Shoestringing and bootstrapping are successful strategies when money is tight. When money is there, spend it. A business campaign can rise or fall based on the money behind it. Don’t hesitate to invest money, especially on the important things. If you don’t have it, find someone who does and share the bounty. 100% of nothing is still nothing!

8.   You don’t want to sell just one million books (widgets, etc.). You want anyone who wants what you have to be able to buy it. Don’t set arbitrary limits. Find a way for everyone who wants what you have to get it. It will enrich you in the process.

9.   Don’t become a student of products... but...  do become a student of markets. Know your markets better than you know your products. If you fall in love with your product, it will blind you to reality. Fall in love with markets. If there isn’t a market, reconsider or drop the product. Use the SRDS (Standard Rates and Data Service directory) to find your buyers (www.srds.com). It’s not a cheap resource, but it’s vital if you plan to reach a pool of hungry fish.

10. Don’t do LMS… ("Lesser Mortal Shit") [a Halbertism]. Delegate everything except your highest value work. If you run out of highest value work, do the next most valuable work. Don’t do $10/hour work or you won’t ever reach your highest and best value.

11. Two things will get a person’s attention and interest: Showmanship and the "Reason Why". To get the attention of the person you’re after, a little theatre will go a long way. Be creative. If you’ve got 20 big fish to catch, don’t send a letter... but... do send a courier. Gain their interest with a powerful "reason why". Why would they... why SHOULD they... give you their time and attention? What’s the most compelling "reason why" you can give which satisfies their self-interest? If you don’t know, ask your buyers.

12. Understand the Triangle of Marketing… #3 is the copy, #2 is the message, and #1 is the audience. Make sure you have the right/best/hungriest/rabid audience, or your message and copy won’t ever get seen, heard or read. A mediocre message to a great audience will always do better than a great message to a mediocre audience. Know your audience, hone your message, and don’t scrimp on copy. Like an interesting story, good copy gets read.

13. Don’t care about what ANYONE thinks. How often do we hesitate and delay because of what others might think? We thwart our success and happiness worrying about what other people think. We don’t regret the shots we do take, even when they don’t work out. We do regret most of the shots we don’t take. Follow the real desires which lurk deep in your heart. Don’t worry about what others think.

14. Tell your story. A powerful story creates an emotional link. I call this the "E-Link". John Carlton, one of the world’s highest-paid copywriters, says personality is missing in most marketing messages. He suggests we "pinch-them-in-the-butt" and tap the passionate "sweet spot". Tell a story. Connect it to what the person can DO (results, accomplishments), and how the person will FEEL (the strongest E-Link). What story can/will you tell?

15. Gary wrote on the board...

Greedy People Lead
 Lives That Suck!

      Enough said.

16. "Gun-to-the-head-thinking" can get you out of a jam or tough time. If someone had a gun to your head, and to save your life you had to craft the best message you could, what would you say?

17. There’s too much bad news. We can’t hear the voices of light. Cats find the sun spots. They seek the patches of light. (Did you catch that? That's where the name of the seminar came from... "Patches of Light" seminar.) How can you be a source of light?

18. Speak… "from down below." If you want your credibility to soar, don’t speak from your mouth; speak from your pelvis. Imagine your entire chest cavity as one big voice box. Speak "from down below"… and you will create a stronger, more powerful presence. (Thank you, Burt Dubin for this little-known sage advice used by opera singers to get the most from their precious instrument.) [Gary's Note: I have no recollection of Burt's statement.]

19. You’re NOT in the marketing business. You’re in the ARITHMETIC business. If your arithmetic doesn’t add up, you won’t have a business for very long. Start counting.

20. You want to sell your products and services to "addicts" - profound, irrational, passionate, rabid, insane people who buy frequently and spend a lot. That’s your IDEAL buyer. Where are they? How can you reach them? What will you say to them?

21. 10,000 hours… that’s how long it takes to become really good at something. That’s 2,000 hours per year for five years. It can take doctors and other professionals twice that long (10 years), and most self-made millionaires take four times that long (that’s right, 20 years is the average time it takes for self-made millionaires to achieve "overnight" success). You can’t invest a few hours in something and expect to become an expert. There are many self-proclaimed "pseudo-gurus" who emerge after one or two successes and claim expert status. Experts hone their chops over time. What’s your expertise? Hone it, refine it and continuously improve it.

22. The "instant-gratification-society" claims millions of lives each year who fall for the Success BS that the road to success, fame and fortune is quick, easy, painless and risk-free.

23. Entertainers, artists and musicians practice 10,000 hours to hone their chops, most of it in solitude and anonymity. Entrepreneurs suffer ups and downs, ins and outs of all kinds over many years before they hit their stride and achieve consistent and lasting success.

24. There are no shortcuts. Then again, why should there be? The journey, the process itself is the reward. The achievement of a goal or objective is icing on the cake. The real payoffs are what we learn, how we grow, who we meet and how much we pass on to others.

25. If we polish up and internalize these pearls of wisdom, especially those which challenge our existing boundaries and beliefs, the payoff can be priceless.

26. If we seek out and embrace critics, we will learn things we could not know otherwise. It’s courageous to listen to the truth, especially when it’s unpleasant. Seek the truth and embrace it. Don’t run from it or hide from it. The truth WILL set you free.

27. Things I disagree with most can often be the truth which does me the most good. Beware of what you defend, protect and reject. It just might be a life-changing gift in disguise.

This weekend I opened up to the possibility that my view is skewed (it is), and my thinking is broken (we all have blind spots). That doesn’t mean I’m broken, just my thinking. Last weekend I didn’t defend, protect or project an image or vested interest. I didn’t try to prove I was right, look good or be inauthentic. As a result, I got astounding insights and an amazing amount of valuable input.

I hope in sharing these Pearls of Wisdom they make as much a difference in your quality of life and quantity of prosperity as I know they will for me.

With my highest esteem, I am yours truly,

                                                           Mitch

PS… Today more than ever, people are hungry for substance over style, truth over hype. The dumbing-down of advertising and marketing communication, lowered expectations and the unrelenting appeal to our ignorance... not our intelligence... have people thirsting for messages with substance and truth.

 

I want to thank Mitch for the kind words he had to say  about my "Patches of Light" seminar. We will be duplicating  the tapes of that seminar in the near future and offering them for sale at a very low price. (Just enough to recoup our costs.) In the meantime, we've enclosed an audio tape from   the seminar which may contain information of interest to you. If it does, just give us a call at the phone number on our letterhead (305/534-7577).

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.	This is the first time I've included my personal e-mail address on the letterhead of my newsletter. There's a funny story behind how my screen name became "NoSexGary" and maybe I'll share that with you in a future issue.

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Another Issue About... Where The Money Is... And... How To Get It!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/asza_another_issue.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I wanted to wait until the last day of the year before I started to write this issue of my newsletter.

I don't know exactly why. I had my subject all picked out and I had plenty of time to write. I was going to write about phone blasts and fax blasts (which I had touched on in my last newsletter). Incidentally, in my last issue, I wrote that most of these calls were made with the idea of leaving a message on your phone answering machine or voicemail... and... these calls were made at night when you were most likely to be sleeping.

Turns out I was wrong about that. These calls are made during the day. I dunno, I guess there's some sort of law against making them at night.

Anyway, the research I've done on this so far turns out to be fascinating and soon, I will be writing about it in a very interesting newsletter.

But, not this one.

I don't know why... except... I just had a feeling. In the back of my mind was the nagging thought there was something more important I should be writing about. And, it turns out, I was right. At least, I think I was  right. We'll get to that in several moments.

But first, I want to make a few observations overall about my newsletter.

I started writing my newsletter way back in 1986. And, in a matter of hours, it will be the year 2002. That means, I am about to enter...

My 17th Year Of
Writing My Newsletter!

Can you believe that? It's actually kind of hard for me to believe. You know, there's probably been more change in those 17-years than any other 17-years in history. Think about it: A first-class stamp cost 22¢ in 1986. Now, it's up to 34¢. That's an increase of 55%.

I remember how, way back when, I wrote everyone should have a fax machine. I wrote something to the effect the time had come that if someone asked for your fax number and you said, "I don't have a fax," that was no longer an acceptable answer.

I remember how I was dragged kicking and screaming into the computer age. In fact, it was in my 100th issue, after a bunch of brain-numbing research, I wrote a "Gary Halbert Explanation" about how computers work. That issue won me the "Communicator-Of-The-Year" award from the Toastmasters Organization.

There's been so much change in the last 17-years, I could easily fill up this entire issue just by waxing nostalgic.

But, I'm not going to do that.

However, please do allow me just one more observation: If the last 17-years have seen more change than any other 17-years in history, this year (2001) all by itself...

Has Created More "Core" Change
In Our Lives Than All The Rest
Of Those 17-Years Put Together!

Yet, in spite of that, there's something which has warmed my heart. Believe it or not, I received more response from my last newsletter than any other newsletter I've ever written! I got so many replies, so many compliments, so many expressions of appreciation for my work, I was pretty much overwhelmed.

It's had a curious effect on me. It has made me decide to redouble my efforts to make this the most valuable newsletter ever published. I think achieving that goal would be great. But, I think the striving for that goal is what's really important.

I'll tell you a secret: My best newsletters do not result from a calculated attempt to figure what my subscribers would most like to read. No, my best newsletters come instead when I have the courage to write what I feel my subscribers need to read.

Sometimes, that's hard. I almost decided not to write what you are about to read. I'll tell you why after you've read it.

Let's get started. I was reading a recent issue of my friend Dan Kennedy's newsletter when a sentence in his letter jumped right off the page and lodged itself indelibly in my mind. It read:

"Tigers Starve Last In The Jungle!"

Here's why that observation hit me so hard: For an awful lot of people, times are very tough. There are more people out of work now (I think) than there has been since I started publishing this newsletter. Profits from retail sales are down more than most people can ever remember. People are scared. In Argentina, there is a financial panic and people are rioting. And, in this global economy, what happens in one country affects what happens in all countries. Hell, I don't need to dwell on our economic situation. Just read your newspaper. Or watch the news on network TV.

Anyway, it seems to me if you and I want to survive and prosper in this "storm-of-change" we are all experiencing, we better set about developing a "Tiger Mindset." Not only that, if possible, we should endeavor to confine our selling efforts to other people with "Tiger Mindsets." People who are the least likely to "starve" financially. Who are these people? I define them as...

Players With Money!

Look, it is easier to sell something to someone with money. If you've got a $500,000 house for sale, it doesn't matter how appealing the house is if the family you're pitching it to has a pitifully low total income.

But there's another fact you mustn't overlook. Players With Money usually have an important character trait most of the "sheep" out there don't possess. Namely...

They Have The Ability To Make A Decision!

And... without talking it over with their spouse, their lawyer, their CPA, or their mommy. Usually, Players With Money got their loot because their lives are filled with independent thought and movement. These people  also possess another rare commodity. Namely... the ability to recognize value. In other words, yes, it's true these people are easier to sell than Joe Average but... only if you offer true value!

Reflect, for a moment, on what I sell. This would include a high-priced, rather arrogant newsletter, expensive seminars, expensive videos, audios, printed information packages, client services, etc. Who won't buy my material? Basically, stupid, lazy people who relate its value to how much it weighs and how much "bulk" they receive. Who does buy my material? The answer is easy...

Players With Money!

Want some proof? I did a per capita analysis of the readers of my newsletter by State. The ten States       with the highest per capita readership of this newsletter are: (1) Vermont, (2) Texas, (3) Nevada, (4) Colorado, (5) Alaska, (6) Arizona, (7) Utah, (8) Washington, (9) California, and (10) Hawaii.

The ten States with the lowest per capita readership of this newsletter are: (1) West Virginia (by far the  worst of all. [Could this have anything to do with the fact I was born there?]), (2) Kentucky, (3) Nebraska,   (4) Mississippi, (5) South Dakota, (6) Tennessee, (7) South Carolina, (8) Iowa, (9) North Dakota, and         (10) Louisiana.

These two groups of States are separated by a dramatic difference in per capita income. Want to know the difference in the average four-member family income from the highest State (Vermont) to the lowest (West Virginia)? It's a staggering $14,800. And get this: The per capita readership of my newsletter in Vermont as opposed to the readership in West Virginia is...

900% Higher!

Pay attention here. This does have meaning for you. Remember what Willy Sutton said when asked why he robbed banks? "Because that's where the money is!" So, to get to the bottom-line, here's what I'm suggesting: If you haven't done so already...

Start Thinking About Developing
High-Priced, High-Profit Products
And Services With Enormous Value!

And secondly...

Start Thinking About Selling Your
High-Priced, High-Profit Products
And Services With Enormous Value
To Players With Money!

Pretty simple concepts, aren't they? But, simple or not, this kind of thinking can separate you from the poverty of the brain-dead masses and catapult you into the ranks of those lucky folks who enjoy total financial freedom. However, to help you implement these concepts, I feel I need to give you some tips on (A) What to sell to Players With Money, and (B) How to locate them.

First, what are "PWM's" (Players With Money) most likely to buy? Well, for openers, they are extremely willing to shell out money for what they did not get in school. Namely... an education. PWM's learn very early almost nothing taught in school has any commercial value whatsoever. For one thing, our school system teaches absolutely nothing about how to be an entrepreneur. And, of course, almost all PWM's are entrepreneurs. They have to be. After all, being an entrepreneur is almost the only way to make truly serious money either here or in any other country in the world. So, what kind of education does an entrepreneur need? He needs an education on "how-to-sell"... because... none of his high school or college classes even touched on this subject. PWM's make up the largest segment of the market for books, seminars, video tapes, audio tapes, lectures and anything else that can help them become more skilled in the art of selling. They also make up the largest share of the market for information on other money-related matters... such as management, how to invest their profits, international currency fluctuations, stock and commodity speculations, reducing their tax burden and so on.

What else besides education are PWM's eager to purchase? They are also eager to purchase... INSPIRATION! I don't mean phony/baloney types of inspiration like the horseshit sold by televangelists. Nor do I mean stupid tapes with hidden "subliminal" messages (they've been proven not to work) that supposedly bombard your mind with positive "you-can-do-it" rah-rah types of messages. No, the type of inspiration I'm talking about is the kind you get from listening to the experiences of other PWM's who have made it big by overcoming the same types of obstacles all of us have to face with deadening regularity. True inspiration, effective inspiration is more than just a hyper-excitable speaker who is able to froth a room full of people into a frenzy with empty "pump-up" catchy phrases.

For example, I think guys like Zig Ziglar do some good but mostly, they leave people all dressed up with no place to go. They get you all enthused... but... they don't give you any specific blueprint that tells you how to profitably harness that enthusiasm. If you want to get some real inspiration, the best source is listening to a talk by a person who started out with nothing except the handicap of 12 or 16 years of schooling... and then... hearing him explain step-by-step in minute detail how he overcame this deadening handicap and went on to become a PWM in the field of his choice.

By the way, speakers at multi-level rallies give the illusion of doing this but, after they've got you all enthused, they give you a specific plan that makes them (not you) money... and... sends you (not them) off into activities which are often illegal and always stupid. I've said it before and I'll say it again. MULTI-LEVEL MARKETING SUCKS! Not just some of it, all of it. By the way, I heard in a speech by Dan Kennedy the average annual income of an Amway distributor is a whopping $32.00!

Enough of that. Simply said, the kind of real inspiration PWM's are willing to purchase is provided by articulate experts who have become successes in their chosen endeavors and are willing to share their knowledge.

Now you listen! Just because these people have money doesn't mean they are promiscuous with it. They will spend it... but... not frivolously. Take automobiles for instance. You won't find most PWM's driving Fords, Chevy's, VW's, etc. On the other hand, I don't think many of them drive cars like Ferraries, Maseraties and Jaguars either. Those cars represent very poor value. They depreciate faster than a politician can make excuses, they are extremely uncomfortable, they have frequent and enormously expensive breakdowns and there is no place on any American highway where it is legal to drive them at the speeds they were intended to be driven. In other words, instead of value, what they actually are is high-priced toys usually bought by...

The Children Of Players With Money!

My guess as to what most of the real PWM's buy are cars like Cadillacs, Buick Roadmasters, Mercedes and Lexus sedans. These are all automobiles that are safe, comfortable, luxurious and have a very high resale value. In other words, they represent an intelligent choice, not a stupid gesture.

What I'm trying to illustrate here is PWM's will spend... and spend big... but... they won't spend stupidly. Another thing to remember is, PWM's care about substance, not window dressing. When I sell my information, I don't "dress it up" much. My videos, for example, are raw. I don't concern myself with "production values," adding chintzy canned music to the sound track or clever graphics and cute special effects. What I do concern myself with is providing substance and, I hardly ever get a complaint about my materials.

What else will intelligent, hard-working Players With Money buy? Another big category is... services that save time! All truly wise people realize time is the most precious commodity they possess. And, it is this commodity they are least likely to squander. Do you realize many people who pay to have me write copy for them can do it almost as well as I can? So why hire me? Because it frees up their time to get on with the crucial job of running their business.

As a general rule, nobody with wisdom ever does anything business-related he can hire someone else who is honest and competent to do for him. Dumb people (losers) gloat about all the money they save by doing things themselves instead of paying someone else to do that same job. Smart people (winners) are always ready to cheerfully cough up fungolas to buy time. For example, I went to a Rolling Stones concert in Miami. I sat center stage in the second row. My tickets (obtained from a ticket broker) cost me ten times as much as most of the people around me paid because... they were willing to stand in line up to 14-hours to get the seats they wanted. Poor me. I guess I blew around $8.00 per hour. What a sucker I am!

Players value time. If you want to market to them, consider a business providing meals (good meals) delivered to them. Consider a business that sends masseurs to their corporate offices to give executives and employees a tension-reducing shoulder rub. Consider a car wash business that does the job where the Player has his car parked when he is working. Organize an executive typing service where Players can dictate their correspondence into a phone and then have the letters delivered to them for their signature.

The possibilities are endless.

OK, let's say I've convinced you PWM's are your best target for making direct response profits. So, if that's the case, how do we market to them? We've got a lot of options. TV infomercials. Radio. Magazine ads. Newspapers. Even the Internet is now a viable option for savvy entrepreneurs. However, if I could use only one medium amongst all of today's choices to reach PWM's, my choice would be...

Direct Mail

Does that surprise you? Especially after my last newsletter? Hasn't the "Anthrax Scare" eliminated (or drastically diminished) the capacity for direct mail to make big profits?

Not really. I must admit, it scared me. If you have a valuable customer list, I think you would be wise to discover as many alternate ways to communicate with them as possible. Just like I did in last month's issue.

But, pound-for-pound, dollar-for-dollar, if I were limited to one option... and one option only... (after a lot of thought) I would still chose direct mail. Just for the sake of argument, let's say you suspect I may be right. If that's the case, how should you proceed?

Here we go! You whip out your credit card and dial (847) 375-5000. This will get you through to the corporate headquarters of "Standard Rate and Data Service" (SRDS)... and... when you get them on the phone, tell 'em you want to subscribe to their SRDS Mailing List Catalog. It's updated bi-monthly and it's gonna set you back nearly $500.00.

Just do it. Bite the bullet and spend the money. There's no alternative.

With me? Good! Now, what you will soon receive in the mail (and you'll get a new one every other month) is a big, thick book that describes almost every mailing list on the market. It'll tell you the size of the list, the source of the list, a description of the list, how much the unit of sale was people on the list spent, what they spent it on and how long ago they spent it.

What I want you to do, as soon as you get the book, is take 10 or 20 hours out of your life and start reading those thousands of list descriptions.

You Will Be Amazed!

As you read the descriptions, do the math. Multiply the number of people on the list by the average unit of sales. Right now, I'm reading the masterfile list description of a company called "Select Information Exchange." Here is the description of that list:

"This is a file of individuals with an avid interest in financial topics and investment information. They have purchased (more than half via credit cards) newsletters and/or financial service products from SIE (Select Information Exchange) -- the nation's leading financial subscription agency for over thirty years.

"This proven file has been used by a multiplicity of different types of mailers with a 50% 'continuation' record. Included are banks, insurance firms, gold and silver coin companies, commodity trading firms, stock & discount brokerage firms, tax shelters, oil & gas, business, financial and investment advisory publications, collectibles, fundraisers, catalogers and credit card issues - and others.

"Space ads appear in a variety of media (i.e., Money Magazine, Barrons, Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Investors Business Daily, Financial World, Personal Investor, Better Investing). Regarding libraries, this list has the name of the acquisitions manager (the individual in charge of book purchasing)."

 

Let's see now. This masterfile has 2,495,000 names on it and the average unit of sale is $375.00. Lemme drag out my trusty calculator and see what that comes out to. Let's see... that's 375 x 2,495,000 which comes to uh... wait a minute... can that be right? Lemme check that again. By golly it is right! This is a list of folks who are extremely passionate about investing... and... have demonstrated that passion by spending... uh...

Over 935 Million Dollars!

And looky here! We can select them out by all sorts of ways. The men from the women. The Canadians from the Americans. The stock buyers from the options buyers from the bond buyers, the oil stock investors, the traders who buy low-priced stocks and so on. Hey, and guess what else? We can even select by what ethnic group we want. If we don't won't them all, we can say we only want the Chinese people on the list. Or the French. Or the Germans. Or the Irish, Italian, Japanese, Jewish, Korean, Spanish, Greek, Polish, Scottish, English, Russian, Arabic, American... or... whatever.

Amongst the thousands of mailing lists you are going to be reading about are people who bought cookbooks, people who bought model cars, sewing supplies, gourmet food, etc., etc. etc. But, what I want you to be looking for are big lists of Players With Money... the people who have that "Tiger Mindset"... needed to survive and prosper even in today's harsh realities.

Not only do you want Players With Money, you want PWM's who have what I call a "High Passion Index" about something.

Like golfers.

As a general rule, golfers have above-average income and, a certain percentage of them will spend literally any amount of money to take strokes off their game. Hark unto me: As you know, my friend Joe Polish has something he calls the SuperStar Audio Tape Series where each month he interviews some clever person on some aspect of marketing. Well, one of his interviews was with a guy named Jeff Paul... and... you've got to have the tape and transcript of this interview. I think it'll set you back $14.95 or something like that and you can order it by calling (480) 858-0008. Once again, please don't fight me on this. Just do it.

Let me tell you about Jeff Paul. A little more than a decade ago, he was a Certified Financial Planner. He was part of a small team that offered advice and seminars on stuff like estate planning, living trusts and all sorts of other financial wisdom. The only problem he and his team had was, they couldn't get clients. So, Jeff started studying direct marketing. He put what he learned to work... and... he turned around a practice that was doing $5,000 to $10,000 a month into a practice that was doing up to... $150,000 per month. It worked so well, his partners naturally decided to abandon these crass National Enquirer techniques... and... they elected to go back to using the dumb-ass, stale, conventional marketing techniques they were more comfy with.

So, Jeff quit.

He decided to dump his financial planning career altogether and go full time into direct marketing. After a year-and-a-half, he had managed to lose everything he had. He lost his house, he was $100,000 in debt on his credit cards, had no job, no income and no prospects. Jeff and his wife, Peggy, and their three kids ended up in his sister-in-law's basement living on a couch.

Then he made a little discovery.

As soon as he started to use this discovery, his business went from a measly $1,000 per month to $13,000. The second month he went to $26,000. The third month was $49,000. Now, he has a two million dollar-a-year business he runs from a 400 square foot office upstairs over his garage.

What did he discover? He discovered the crucial thing that matters is... your market. Yep, he discovered it's the market that is the key to the whole deal. He says, (and he's right) "You have to have people who are hungry, people who are irrational, and I mean literally irrational, that are passionate, that have money, and they're willing to spend the money. They have to have a dire sense of urgency, even desperation about something... and... they have to be reachable!"

Amen!

Then he says, "You have to find out what they want and give it to them." He says if you do this, "You don't have to fight. There's no battles. No challenges. There's no mountains and obstacles to overcome. You've made it easy, you've stacked all the deck in your favor."

Amen, again!

Jeff has sold to various markets over the years. But guess where he found a really enormous success?

Golfers!

Just what did he sell them? A set of golf clubs which helped them achieve a lower score. Just how much did he charge for his golf clubs?

$6,000 Per Set!

How did he sell them? With a long copy, direct mail sales letter. That's right... no pictures... no brochures... no nothing except copy.

As he points out, you couldn't do this with a rational market. Golfers are irrational. They'll play in the rain, the snow, they'll buy books, take lessons and, in general, I bet they would jump through hoops of fire if they thought it would take strokes off their game.

So, what you do first is, you get that SRDS Mailing List Catalog and read all those mailing list descriptions... and... you find yourself a moneyed group of people who are nutso enough about something to spend irrational amounts of money on whatever it is. Then...

You Find Or Create A
Very Expensive Product
For These People!

Look, I'm not saying you should ignore the "Anthrax Factor." I'm not saying it's going to go away either. There's a lot of stuff which has changed in the last few months. A lot of stuff which is not going to go away. And, God only knows what "fresh hells" we are going to be plagued with in the next 12-months.

But, we have to face up to every challenge. We can do it too. There are more of us with "Tiger Mindsets" here in the good ol' USofA than anywhere else on earth.

Don't you forget it!

Grrrrr!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.   You want to know why I almost didn't write this newsletter? It's because a lot of it, I had already written in past issues. But, dammit, this is what I thought really needed to be said. I feel these concepts are so important, you need to be reminded of them over and over. These concepts need to be literally pounded into your head. (And, it's my job to be the "hammer" that does this.)

         I hope you agree with me. But, even if you don't, guess what?

I Still Ain't Gonna Change!

         Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Use Cheap Little Classified Ads To Make As Much As $10,000 Per Day!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zjkk_cheap_little_classifieds.htm

From:
W-a-y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Let's all make some money!

As I told you last month, this month I'm going to tell you about a "remote control" mass marketing technique that could easily double your income. I wasn't kidding. If you can't figure a way to make some big bucks from the info in this issue then, my friend, we may have to face the fact that, you are perhaps...

Beyond All Hope!

Aw, but that's not true, is it? Of course not! And, to tell the truth, I never suspected it for a moment. In fact, in my judgment, since we already know you are smart enough to subscribe to this letter, then obviously, all you need is a little nudge once in a while (don't we all?) and a simple, easy-to-follow road map.

O.K., here's the road map; the nudge'll come later. What I'm going to do first is make you aware of three important items of info and then I'm going to lash these three items together you can see how all this relates to an enormous profit potential.

So, to begin with, how many times have you read an ad or seen a direct response TV commercial that said, somewhere in the copy, "Sorry, no C.O.D.'s"? Lots of times, right? And no wonder. C.O.D. refusals are often very high (as much as 50%!) and sending stuff C.O.D. is truly a hassle. It requires time, paperwork and, it costs extra money.

All in all, a lousy idea, right?

Hold the phone. Let's think this C.O.D. business through one more time. From a slightly different angle. Let's say you're selling something that retails for around $60.00 for which your wholesale cost is around $30.00. Now, let's say you do accept C.O.D. orders and your refusal rate is a sky high 50% (which, incidentally, is very common). There's no doubt about it: With these numbers, you don't have a chance.

But wait! Let's say we're selling a different kind of product. Let's say we're selling a super product like the one I touted in the 12/5/87 issue of this letter. Remember what I said back then? Remember how I said, "sell something you love"? And also, how, if you didn't already have a product, you should use the guidelines in that issue to create a report that gives people valuable info for which they would be willing to pay handsomely? Reports like "how to ski anywhere in The u.s. at half price" or "how to lose 50 lbs in a new york second" or "how to stop writing ads for a living and make people pay you for scuba diving"?

Etc.?

Alright, let's say you are selling such a report. If so, it's probably going to cost you about 50 cents apiece to have them printed up, assuming you are doing any kind of volume at all. Now, if we sent this report C.O.D. via UPS (United Parcel Service), we're going to have to shell out another $4.11 in order to fill our orders. NOTE: This is figured on sending our reports to the Zip codes farthest from us.

So far, so good. Especially so, since we're going to charge $19.95 for our report.

PLUS $3.00 shipping and handling!

PLUS C.O.D. charges of $2.50!

For a grand total of $25.45.

Uh, let's see now, if it costs us 50 cents to print our report and, $4.11 to ship it C.O.D., that comes to $4.61 which, when divided into our customer's total cost of $25.45, gives us a markup of 619%!

Aha, now we're talking! Shall we take another look at the math on that 50% rejection rate? Let's. We ship 100 units at $4.61 apiece for a total outlay of $461.00. And, half of those folks send us a message which, if acronymed, would be "E S & D!"

In other words, they refuse the package and we end up getting it back.

But the other 50% who did accept the package, and who paid us $25.45 apiece for same, yield us a gross of $1,272.50.

Hmn? When we subtract our costs of $461.00 from our gross of $1,272.50, it seems to me we are knocking down a hefty $811.50 gross profit...

On Every 100
Orders We Ship!

And, we can feel good about it too! Why? The answer is simple: You see, when people buy info from us, they are not buying paper and ink... they are buying answers!

And, they really don't care whether you pay 50 cents to produce your reports or $50.00 or 5 cents. Nope. What they really care about is...

Do You Deliver?

Onward. Now, from the above figures, you can see we'll break even if only 18 or 19 of every 100 orders we ship are accepted. Think about it. Think about the astonishing fact that, (with these margins), as long as you collect at least 20% of the C.O.D.'s you send out, at least you won't lose money on that part of your operation.

And think about this: There are lots of other products like vitamins, diet pills, cosmetics and so on that have these kinds of margins!

And think about this: Offering to ship C.O.D. almost always dramatically increases your pull!

And think about this: Ol' Guru Gary knows how (in most cases) to vastly increase C.O.D. acceptances and he's going to tell you exactly how later in this letter!

But not now. Nope. Now it's time for me to move on to the second area of info upon which I wish to expound. Namely: Answering services with...

"Electronic Mailboxes"!

Actually, all we're talking about here is answering services with "super duper" answering machines. They work kind of like a monster version of your handy dandy home answering machine. Like this: What you do is you run an ad to sell your report or your diet pill or whatever... and... in the ad (which only teases your prospect) you invite said prospect to call the number assigned you by the answering service to hear a harmless "non-threatening" recording with more info about your goods and/or services.

And so he does. And he (your prospect) hears a long recorded announcement that tells him your report (or pill or whatever) is the best thing since sliced bread... and... to get it...

He Doesn't Have To Send Any Money Or Even Use His Credit Card Because You, In All Your Nobleness, Will Send Your Goods To Him C.O.D.!

Wowee! That sure removes all doubt as to whether you're really going to send the goods, doesn't it? Oh yeah! Oh yeah! A sales message like this (properly done) positively removes at least 90% of the anxiety people often feel when ordering by mail from a "stranger."

Want to hear how it's done? I knew you would. I've recently become aware of a guy who's running a little "work-at-home" classified ad (stay away from this area, it's FED BAIT!) and it has a phone number for the reader to call... and... when you call this number you get his recording selling you on buying his work-at-home "guide" plus his instructions to you on how you should leave your name and address so he can ship you his guide via C.O.D.

Go ahead and call and listen. The number is (xxx) xxx-xxxx.

Do It Now!

Gee, I'm pushy, ain't I? Forgive me, I mean no harm. It's just that all the rest of this letter will be clearer to you if you take a few minutes to hear a real "live" example of how all this is done.

Remember, do not emulate what the guy who made this recording is doing. As I said, he's working in a truly dangerous area. However, listening to his recording hopefully did get your mind working as to how we can use this concept in other "less volatile" areas of endeavor.

Plus, later on, I'm going to give you the number of another recording that was made by a man who is known far and wide as a veritable "Prince Of A Guy"!

But that's later. For now, let's get back to this "electronic mailbox" idea. Let's assume you've run your ad, or TV or radio spot (or billboard or whatever)... and... you've gotten people to call your recording... and... you've sold them on letting you ship them your goods C.O.D. So, what's next? Well, what's neat about the services that provide this "mailbox" service is you can, whenever you wish, call your mailbox and, by pushing a code on your touch-tone phone, "empty" your mailbox.

In other words, you call and get the names and addresses of all your new customers and then erase the tape and your mailbox sits there, all ready to be filled up again.

Listen: These things take multiple calls at the same time, they don't tie up your office lines, they're cheap, they fix it so you don't have to buy or lease exotic answering machines (at least until you've finished your testing and you're ready to "roll out" like crazy) and, if necessary, they provide a bit of a "shield" for those of you who don't want to waste time talking to dorko idiots.

Check around and see if there's one of these services in your area. If not, here's one in L.A. you might want to use:

Alert Communications
2437 Grand Avenue
Ventura, Ca 93003
(800) 664-3489

Tell 'em Gary sent ya.

Enough. Let's move on to the third area of interest. A question: In all of AdvertisingLand, what is the best advertising buy you can make, pound-for-pound, penny-for-penny, dollar-for-dollar? Answer: Why it's none other than those little, itty bitty...

Classified Ads!

Yes indeedy, it's true. And, before you scoff at the "small timeness" of this medium, consider this...

I Personally Know
 At Least Three Different
 Companies Who Gross
 Several Million Per Year
 Using Nothing But Classifieds!

Hah! That got your ol' greed glands working, didn't it? Well, hang in there, my sweet subscriber, 'cause you ain't heard nothing yet! Yea verily, it turns out one of my esteemed readers has done a remarkable thing. And, what has this man done, pray tell? Simply this...

He Has Put Together
 A Network Of 3,806
 Newspapers In 41 States With A Combined Circulation Of
 30,880,526 In Which
 You Can Place A 25
 Word Classified Ad
 For Less Than $1.55
 Per Paper!!!

Yahoo! Yahoo! Yahoo!

Let's milk this sucker! The man's name who put all this together is xxxxxx and his phone numbers are:

FAX (xxx) xxx-xxxx

FREE (xxx) xxx-xxxx

(xxx) xxx-xxxx

And, if that ain't enough, his TELEX number is 221 031 BRAD UK.

Now listen: If you want to place your classified ads through this man, you'll obviously have to pay him for the privilege. But hear this: He's found a way to "network" the placing of classified ads and he can do it on a dirt cheap basis and he can make a buck even though...

His Profit Is Only
 Slightly More Than
 The $.25 Postage
 It Would Cost You To
 Mail An Insertion
 Order To Each Of These Papers!

Here are some of the details on this highly unusual classified ad placement service:

1. This is the only national (or even State) program of brokerage on classified ads. No one else has ever done anything like this.

2. This is the most unknown service in existence. Some of my subscribers are the very largest users of classifieds in the world and neither they nor I had ever heard of this service.

3. For speed, this classified ad business even beats direct mail. Ads received in any given week are run the very next week. And, of course, since no one saves newspapers, you know if you have a "winner" almost instantly.

4. This is the best test market God ever invented. The reason is that all copy for each State each week must be uniform and you can make no changes of any kind. However, 41 States means 41 chances to test as many as 41 different headlines or copy appeals each week!

5. NOTE: Most of these papers will not allow you to ask for money in your classified ads and that means you must work a program similar to the one described earlier in this letter.

You know, this is an ideal way to rather "quietly" entrepreneur a mail order-type enterprise and develop a hefty private income for yourself. On the other hand, if you already own or operate a big business, there is still a way this classified area can be of benefit to you and your company. Let's say you are Jimmy Calano of Careertrack (largest seminar provider in the world) and you are wondering if your new idea of giving "Workplace Re-Entry" seminars to women who have recently finished raising their families is viable or not. Hmn? Could classifieds give you a clue? You bet! You see...

You Can Use Classifieds To Test Concepts!

I'll explain in a moment. But first, here is a list of the States in which this program is available along with the circulation of the papers in those States:

STATE	NO. OF PAPERS	CIRCULATION		STATE	NO. OF PAPERS	CIRCULATION
AL	103	1,100,000		NV	32	359,000
AZ  	55	575,131		NE	171	711,000
AR	78	773,733		NJ	70	1,500,000
CO	101	640,566		NY	184	1,051,000
CT + RI	43	320,250		NC	138	1,425,451
FL	64	1,006,400		ND	95	425,753
GA	104	1,500,000		NM	28	215,120
ID	41	256,193		OH	110	871,740
IL	227	2,198,100		OK	125	588,000
IN	80	930,000		OR	67	361,238
IA	238	1,300,000		SC	78	653,000
KS	82	326,999		SD	150	374,986
KY	75	1,200,000		TN	73	439,373
LA	79	518,707		UT	20	160,000
ME + NH + VT	23	167,700		VA	72	1,251,843
MA	41	502,900		WV	50	559,236
MN	273	2,200,000		WA	111	1,092,022
MS	62	415,000		WI	173	1,615,484
MO	147	917,563		WY	41	187,000
MT	63	190,038		 	 	 

O.K., now that you've perused the list, let's say you run the following classified in all those different papers:

Gee, you sure can say a lot in 25 words, can't you? But anyway, by running that ad in 3,806 papers and monitoring the calls received by your "mailbox", you'd not only get an idea of the viability of this project but also, you'd know...

In Which States It
 Is The Most Viable!

And so on. Listen: This guy Pursinger has collected a ton of info on how to make classifieds work and, if you become one of his national subscribers, he'll share this info with you.

By the way, I, myself, am one of this clients.

O.K., boys and girls, that's it for this month. I hope I've stimulated your thinking.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

                                   

P.S     Hey do you want to call my electronic mailbox? If so, the number is
        (xxx) xxx-xxxx. Thank you.

P.P.S.  What's that?  You say I forgot to tell you how to increase your
        C.O.D. acceptances? Not so. Here's how you do it:

(1)  You capture the telephone number of each customer and you call
              to verify the order and tell him to watch for the package.

(2)  And/or before you send the package, you send a card or letter
              telling him to watch for it and how much money he needs to
              have ready and so forth and...

How He Is Getting
Something Extra That
He Didn't Order But
That Has Been Included
In His Package
At No Additional Cost!

 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Where The Money Is... And... How To Get It!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zfla_where_money_is.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

      Back to basics.

      Because of my GHA network, I now do quite a lot of speaking before "civilians" or, as they are sometimes known, "the general public." During these talks, it's important for me to remember these people are not "tuned-in" (as you are) to the world of direct response, measured-results marketing. Therefore, I must be very careful to give them a grounding in the "basics" before I attempt to teach them how to multiply their money-making efforts.

      And you know what? All this reminds me how I sometimes forget or overlook the basics. Probably, at one time or another, you do too. So... what I'm going to do here is take a page or two to remind both of us what it is we must understand before we can sally forth and carve out our fortunes. Here then, are the initial points I try to make every time I address a group of "non-tuned-in" civilians:

ALL MONEY IS MADE BY SOMEBODY SELLING SOMETHING TO                     SOMEBODY ELSE!

      A model sells her beauty. A factory worker sells his time and his minimum skills. A test pilot sells his courage and expertise. Even a ditch digger is selling something: His labor. The point is... you don't have a choice about whether or not you want to be a salesperson, you already are one. Maybe, you're not what is generally regarded as a pure salesman (i.e., someone who sells encyclopedias door-to-door or cars at an auto dealership) but, you absolutely do make your living by selling something. Again... all money is made by somebody selling something to somebody else.

      And... since this is true...

THE MOST IMPORTANT DECISION YOU WILL EVER MAKE AS FAR AS YOUR CAREER IS CONCERNED IS... WHAT IT IS THAT YOU ARE GOING TO SELL!

      Nearly everybody gets this part wrong. People go into real estate because they hear that's where the money is. Or they go into computers for the same reason. In the move "The Graduate," someone whispered the word "plastics" in Dustin Hoffman's ear because, they believed "that's where the money is." This kind of thinking is dangerously wrong. This is far too important a decision to be made by analysis. You should never go into something merely because you heard "that's where the money is." No... the only correct way to deal with this decision is...

   3.    SELL SOMETHING YOU LOVE!

      Money should be a "by-product" of enthusiasm. If you get into something just for money, there's a good chance you won't make any. And even if you do, so what? So what if you make a million bucks a week if you hate getting out of bed, hate your work, feel indifferent to your product or service and, in general, you are unmotivated, unalive and... bored?

      Look, life is difficult. And business life is doubly difficult. On your road to success, you're going to be dogged by envy, scoffed at for daring to be a dreamer, trivialized by those with less courage, pestered by bureaucrats, etc. In fact, in today's America, I defy you to get out of bed, use the bathroom, get dressed, eat breakfast and go start your car without running afoul of at least a half dozen laws and regulations.

      By the way, I've just discovered a brand new way to break the law. I've recently been informed by the THE FLORIDA DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION it is illegal for any business in Florida to use the word "college" or "university" in the name of their company. Therefore, it is against the law for us to call ourselves the "Key West College of Millionaires."

      Ain't that something? I wonder if a group of politicians could get away with forming an organization called "The College of Incredibly Stupid Lawmakers"?

      Forgive me, I digress. The point I'm trying to make is, business life is incredibly difficult even under the best of circumstances and when you add this to toiling at something you find boring... you've got a combination that almost guarantees burn out.

You Need To Be "Turned-On"
To Carry On!

      Something that goes along with this idea is you should be selling something you respect. Experts all over the U.S. are always telling people they should improve their image. Not me. What I teach is you should improve your SUBSTANCE!

      Sell the best product. Give the best service. Go the extra mile. The extra 10 miles. The extra thousand miles. It pays off and... in more ways than money.

      You should have a good image but only because... that image is an accurate reflection of your outstanding substance.

      OK, if selling is the source of all money, then...

    4.    SALESMANSHIP MULTIPLIED IS THE SOURCE OF ALL BIG MONEY!

      You can make good money selling. But, there's a limit. There are only so many hours in a day and, if you limit yourself to one-on-one selling, you'll never really hit the jackpot. To make truly serious money, you've got to use RCS ("Remote Control Selling") so you can get your sales message before huge numbers of people all at the same time.

      I look at my sales message as my "payload" and I look at direct mail, TV shows, newspapers and magazine ads, etc. as the "vehicles" I use to deliver that payload.

      Anyway, after I have explained the foregoing concepts to my neophyte audiences, I then go on to ground them in the basics of how to properly use the different "vehicles" that can be used to "deliver" a high-powered sales pitch. I also go into (a little) about how to create a "sales-pitch-in-print" by capturing their enthusiasm on audiotape and then having it transcribed.

      However, one thing I seldom talk about is how to find a product if you don't already have one. And you know, it's surprising to me how many people need help in this area. I've always taken the position that selling is the hard part to get right and there are so many products available it should be easy for anyone to get an item.

      But, of course, nothing is easy if you don't know how to do it so... the rest of this letter will be devoted to how to find something to sell if you don't have something already.

      And all I can hope is the majority of you who already are set in this area will maybe find an idea here you can add to (or use to enhance) your existing product line. So... cut me a little slack here, will you?

      OK, the first thing I need to restate here is, if you don't already have a product, you should seriously (and I mean seriously) consider "manufacturing" one out of paper and ink. I've written step-by-step instructions on how to go about doing this in the 12/5/87 issue of this newsletter which is also reproduced in SECTION #2 of my book, How To Make Maximum Money In Minimum Time.

      So, step one, if you haven't done it already, is to read that 12/5/87 issue.

      Now, here are some other ideas to help you find a product or service:

Read The Articles In Your Local Newspaper Carefully!

      Look for articles about inventors who've come up with new gizmos and entrepreneurs who are offering new services. Most of these people, after their initial enthusiasm has cooled, will find themselves with inventory they can't get rid of. That's because they don't understand MARKETING like you do. Sometimes, what you can do in these situations is, you can pick up the exclusive rights to sell these products or services without laying out a dime.

      Always remember this: There are far more products and services that need your marketing expertise than there are people like you (there are very few people who really understand marketing) who are looking for something to sell. Because of this, there's absolutely no need for you to endure a manufacturer, an inventor, an importer or anyone else who has an "attitude" about how "lucky" you should feel to be given the privilege of selling tons of his product. Always remember...

It Is Marketing Expertise That
Is In Short Supply, Not Widgets!

      But... this issue is about finding the widgets so, let's get on with it.

Read Your Local Newspaper Classifieds!

      Check out "legal notices," "fictitious names," "announcements," "entertainment," "personals," "business services," "professional services," "auctions," "articles for sale," "musical instruments," and... and... aw nuts, just read the entire classified section for a few days and you'll unearth an incredible amount of marketable goods and services.

Read The Yellow Page Ads!

      Read them from "A" to "Z". You'll get ideas, leads, "aha" experiences and... an incredible education. I bet 99.9% of all Americans have never even skimmed the entire yellow page section of their local phone book and... when you do it... I bet it sets your brain ablaze.

      Lotsa stuff in there you'll have never expected!

Read Trade Magazines!

      Your local library will probably have the "SRDS" (Standard Rate & Data Services) book and several other directories that list trade magazines. Study the ones that interest you and you'll find a plethora of new products just begging for someone to give them a marketing plunge.

      IMPORTANT NOTE: During all of this research, keep in mind how much better off you'll be if you have a product that is proprietary. Also, keep in mind, many times you can give a "twist" to an existing product and thereby create an entirely new product that will be proprietary.

Visit Trade Shows!

      Call the Chamber of Commerce in Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, San Francisco, Denver, etc. and get their lists of what trade shows those cities will be hosting. Then, pick out the ones that interest you and attend them. Don't worry if they are technically "closed-to-the-public." Spend some "chump change" on a suitable DBA, some letterheads and business cards and I'm confident you'll gain entry wherever you please.

Check Out Foreign Publications!

      Look under "Consulates & Other Foreign Government Representatives" and you'll find listings like "COLUMBIAN GOVERNMENT TRADE BUREAU-PROEXPO" (hmn, wonder what kinda stuff they've got for expert to the U.S.?) and phone number after phone number of people who will be happy to tell you about publications like Made in Europe, Made in Spain, The Hong Kong Enterprise, etc.

Read The Wall Street Journal!

      Especially the classifieds. You'll find all kinds of neat stuff that could be a cinch for you to market.

Haunt Your Local Bookstores!

      If I didn't have something to sell already, this would be the very first place I'd start looking. I'd keep my eyes open for hot selling non-fiction books I could condense into fast reading reports and market (probably via direct mail) to the millions of people who are hungry for this kind of "how to" info.

Subscribe To Towers Club, USA Newsletter!

      Published by my friend, Jerry Buchanan, it's the best all-'round source I've ever found for highly saleable "paper and ink" products and product ideas. Tell Jerry I sent ya. His number is (206) 572-3084.

Visit Your Local K-Mart!

      I'm not kidding. Just because something is sold in stores doesn't mean it can't be sold via direct marketing. There are plenty of "crossover" items you can "twist," "enhance," "combine," or simply sell as they are through various combinations of direct response media.

Be On The Lookout For "Problems"!

      No problem finding problems, is there? The media makes us aware of them with distressing regularity. But maybe you should start looking at them as OPPORTUNITIES! Long lines because of automobile smog inspections? Hmn, maybe we can sell a solution to that hassle?

      Senior citizens getting ripped off by Social Security? Hmn, maybe we could sell a book on How To Collect Social Security At Any Age? Ah forget it, that wouldn't work.

      People tired of just being a digit in somebody's computer? Maybe we could sell them a brief history of their surname and show them what the first family crest ever recorded with that surname looks like?

      Oh forget it; another stupid idea.

      OK, lemme think. I wonder if anybody'd like to have a key chain with the license number of their car on it?

      Nope. Nope. That's been tried by some charity years ago. Wouldn't work again. Nope, forget it.

      Let's see, how about dog tags for... dogs? Customized by breed with the owner's name and phone number? Nah, people in America don't care that much about their pets. It'd never work.

      Hey, I hear there's lots of lonely guys out there. I wonder? How about a report customized for each city like "How And Where To Pick Up Girls In L.A."?

      Another stupid idea.

      I hear some churches are trying to raise money. Probably just a rumor. But, if it were true... maybe the pastor would let us make an endorsed mailing to his congregation offering rare pages from one of the few remaining Gutenberg Bibles.

      Sounds weak. Don't bother.

      Ah shoot boys and girls, we're having trouble here, aren't we? Maybe we should just... maybe?... we uh... hey...

Let's Advertise For
Something To Sell!

      Want your brain to catch on fire? If so, run the following ad in the Wall Street Journal and the business section of your local newspaper:

      

Marketing Genius Looking
For Hot Products To
Promote!

Have you got a hot product or service? If so, call me. I've got money, brains, marketing know-how and national and international connections and I'm itching for something new and hot I can sell like crazy.

John Subscriber

(000) 000-0000 

     Still stuck? Hmn? How'd you like to promote me? For enough loot (and we can split) I'll talk before almost any group. Especially if it helps me promote my GHA network.

	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
 A "Hot Product"
 All By Himself

P.S.     If you want to come to my June seminar in California... DO... NOT... 
            DELAY... SIGNING... UP...!

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Remember Y2K? I Sure Do... And... How I Was Wrong About It!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zfll_remember_y2k.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek

 

 

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

It's the last day of April and I'm sitting here staring at a ball cap.

It's a pretty ordinary ball cap. Millions of people wear one like this every day. Except, what's different about this one is, it has a little rectangle of plastic attached to the front of it. This rectangle is 1-1/2 inches high and 2-1/2 inches wide. Inside the plastic rectangle is a gray window. Inside the window are black numbers. The number on the far right of the display changes every second. It's kind of like wearing a ball cap with a little plastic clock on the front of it. Except, this clock runs backwards. What it does is count down how many days, hours, minutes and seconds are left until this year is over.

This is a COUNTDOWN 2000 ball cap. When the numbers reflect zero days left, zero hours left, zero minutes left and zero seconds left, this year will be over and the year 2000 will begin.

This hat is an interesting gimmick but, it irritates me. It keeps me conscious of time slipping by. I bought it as a gift for my Uncle Jack (he likes it) and I'll be happy to give it back to him and get it out of my sight.

Recently, someone took a survey to find out what words or phrases Americans were most fed up with hearing. I would have guessed the top of the list would be "Monica Lewinsky." But, I would have guessed wrong. According to the survey, the #1 thing Americans don't want to hear anything more about is...

Y2K!

Well folks, that's just too bad because... before you know it... Y2K is going to be a very serious concern to all Americans. You see, after nearly a year of systematic investigation, a special Senate committee has finished a very sobering study of the Y2K problem that concludes... some incalculable level of economic disruption is inevitable!!

"Make no mistake," warns the investigating Senate panel, "this problem will affect us all individually and collectively in very profound ways. It will indeed impact individual businesses and the global economy. In some cases, lives could even be at stake!"

I don't believe a lot of government studies but, I do believe this one. The authors of the report have taken great care to avoid both undue alarm and unfounded optimism. Here are some of their findings:

 

Planes Will Not Fall

Out Of The Sky!

However, this nation's 670 domestic airports started working on Y2K compliance way too late and, what we are going to experience is a lot of... "flight rationing." And, as bad as it's going to get here, aviation problems are going to be much worse in other countries.

We Are Still Going To Be

Able To Make Telephone Calls!

It looks like 95% of U.S. telephone systems will be ready. However, the same cannot be said for data networks, cellular or satellite communication systems.

We Are Still Going To Be

Able To Get Our Hands

On Our Fungolas!

Or, at least, so they say. Banks are mostly Y2K compliant. You shouldn't have any problems withdrawing your money or getting cash from an automated teller. Plus, the Federal Reserve intends to expand available currency by about 1/3 to approximately 200 billion dollars to cover people who want to withdraw their money.

Sounds good. But, I wouldn't take it as gospel.

Health Care In America

Is Going To Suck!

90% of all American doctors have done nothing to prepare their offices for Y2K problems! 64% of hospitals have no plans whatsoever to test their Y2K fixes before the crunch date. Federal payment systems for Medicare and other health insurance programs are way behind schedule as far as preparing for Y2K problems. A quote from the report: "The health care industry is one of the worst prepared for Y2K and carries a significant potential for harm."

I see some nightmare scenarios on the horizon in this area.

Many of Us Are Gonna

Have To Live In The Dark!

As of the first of this year, only about 50% of electric utilities were ready for Y2K. The greatest problems will emanate from approximately 1,000 small, rural electric utilities. Local and regional "blackouts" are going to be commonplace but, a prolonged, national blackout is not.

Service From Government Agencies Is

Going To Suck Even More

Than It Does Now!

Some Federal agencies are prepared. Some are not. Strangely enough, among the least prepared is the Defense Department. (I don't know about you but, I'm not sure that's such a bad thing.)

State and local governments vary widely as far as they are prepared is concerned. What is rather scary is the Senate panel said, "The greatest concern is the ability of local communities to provide 911 emergency services."

The Economy Is

Gonna Take A Nosedive!

According to the report, heavily regulated fields such as banking, insurance and finance are further ahead but health care, oil, education, agriculture, farming, food processing and the construction industry are lagging behind. Any failure of a critical system is likely to cost up to 3-1/2 million to repair!

What would you guess AT&T has already spent to solve its Y2K problems? Would you believe... 900 million dollars?!

And now, let ol' Guru Gary tell you the main thing that's gonna happen. The Senate report touched on it but, I'd like to give you an idea of just how awful what I see as the "main problem" is going to be.

In a nutshell, it is other countries.

You think we're not ready for Y2K? Hell, we're more prepared than a pack of boy scouts compared to other countries. Take Brazil as an example. It has already experienced economic chaos because of the devaluation of the "Real" this year. But, as losing football teams often say, "Just wait till next year!" You see, Brazil has hardly even begun to become Y2K compliant.

So what? I'll tell you what. Brazil is Maytag's third largest market. How many washers and dryers do you think Maytag is going to sell to Brazilians when the new year makes the majority of Brazilian businesses come to a standstill? And, except for the U.S., Xerox sells more of its products to Brazil than anywhere else.

Think declining sales of Xerox and Maytag... and... all the thousands of other U.S. companies with major markets in foreign countries is going to affect our economy? Our stock market? You bet it will... and... it's not going to be pretty!

The Y2K problem, also known as "The Millennium Bug" is not going to be just another "bump in the road." No, it's going to be...

One Of The Most

Serious And Potentially

Devastating Events This

Nation Has Ever Encountered!

Halbert hype? Nope. That's a direct quote from the Senate report. And get this: The government almost always presents the most positive picture possible on any situation. So, just imagine how bad this situation is really going to be!

Look, the Y2K problem is not complicated. To save space, the pioneers of computer programming used only two digits to indicate what year the computer was dealing with. For example, 1999 is programmed only as 99. It just assumed the first two digits are 19. Therefore, in the year 2000, all computers that aren't fixed are going to think it's 1900.

This is not a trivial matter. It is going to create world-wide chaos.

Let's bring it home. What does all this mean to you? What should you do to be prepared? Is there any way you can profit from this situation?

I'll get to that in a minute. But first, I want to tell you some personal stuff... and then... I'm going to relate this personal stuff to the Y2K problem.

I have a small jet boat. Not a jet ski... a jet boat. It's only 14 feet and 4 inches long. I bought it for practically nothing. A rich guy from Ireland bought it for his son two or three years ago and then got pissed off at his son and never gave it to him. Instead, he put it in storage. When I got it, it looked brand, spanking new.

A jet engine on a boat operates a lot like a jet engine on a plane. The jet on the plane sucks air into the front of the engine and pushes it out the back... thus thrusting the plane forward. A jet engine on a boat works the same way, except it sucks in and pushes out water.

You know how if some sparrows or other birds get sucked into a jet engine on a plane, it screws everything up? Well, the same is true of a jet boat. If the jet sucks up seaweed, the engine loses power until you remove the weeds. In the case of my little boat, the way you do that is jump overboard, swim under the boat and pull the weeds out of the intake grate. Then, you clamber back aboard the boat and off you go.

Now picture this: It's a beautiful Saturday in the Florida Keys. The sun is out and there's not a cloud in the sky. The waters are calm. I'm out by myself in my jet boat. A few times I have to go overboard and clean out the weeds but, I don't think anything about it. I go to a little island named Money Key on the south side of the Seven Mile Bridge. I tie up my boat and explore the island. I walk clear around it looking at little fish, stone crabs and stuff.

I've been out for hours and decide I'd better go home. I untie the boat, start the engine and start mobilating back to the marina. I'm going like a bat out of hell. Maybe 55 mph which is really fast on the water. I'm running between the old Seven Mile Bridge and the new one. The boat starts to lose power. Shit. I've got weeds again. There's a very strong current in this area between the bridges... so... I head north away from the bridges and limp forward until I think I'm far enough away to jump overboard and remove the weeds. I tie a line around my waist, go overboard and under the boat to remove the weeds.

But, when I come up, I discover the current is so strong, the boat has been pulled all the way back to the bridges. Whatever. No problem. Except, when I turn the key, the engine won't turn over. I figure it's a dead battery. I later learn it wasn't. What happened was, a rope got sucked up into the jet intake and froze the engine. By the way, do you know the difference between a rope and a line? It's simple: A rope becomes a line when it is attached to a boat. Untie it from the boat and take it home with you and it's a plain ol' rope again.

Boaters are insane.

Anyway, now the current has taken me south of the bridges and is pushing me with a vengeance out into the Atlantic Ocean. Not to worry. I've got my trusty little 2-horse power "kicker" or safety engine bracketed to the stern for just such emergencies. But, guess what? It won't start either. It's brand, damned new... and... it won't start!

By now, I'm miles out at sea. I'm pondering my situation and I happen to look over my shoulder. What had been a nice day is not so nice any more. I'm looking at one the blackest skies I've ever seen. The storm that followed those clouds has become a minor legend here in the Keys. It appeared literally out of nowhere and lashed the ocean and islands with all the fury of a scorned woman.

There's just a little juice left in my cell phone. I make a couple calls and get the Coast Guard looking for me. They search for a long time but they can't find me. You see, my boat is white and, as I said, only 14 feet long... and... the whitecaps breaking around me are bigger than the boat. The Coast Guard asked me if I have a flare gun. I do with four flares.

I fire up one into the air. They can't even see the flare. More conversation. I tell them exactly where I am. Time goes by.

They ask me to fire another flare. I do and they don't see this one either. Meanwhile, I'm drifting farther and farther out to sea. The waves are getting really big now and the water is coming over the sides of my boat. I have a line attacked to the boat and I tie it around my body. The boat has floatation and I figure if it capsizes, my best chance of survival is to stay with it.

After a while, the Coast Guard is ready for me to fire my third flare. I do and they don't see that one either. I'm now very worried. I'm sitting in a tiny boat which is being battered by large waves. I'm wearing an "el cheapo" life jacket. (It's the kind you should use when you are water skiing in calm water... not... to survive a vicious storm.) And, I've only got one flare left.

Then, I spot the Coast Guard boat!

They can't see me but, I can see them. I tell them which direction to point the bow of their boat and to look straight ahead and watch for my flare. Then, I fire my very last one.

YAHOO! They see it! Two boats race towards me. One is a cutter that tows my boat in. The other is a big, honking Zodiac and I had to get off my boat and onto that one right damn now! They snugged the boats together, held them as tight as they could and I rolled over my boat onto the deck of theirs.

Then began the roughest boat ride of my life. I was holding onto the center console with all my strength and we were hitting the waves so hard, my feet were flying off the deck. Then came a monster wave. We hit it so hard, I flew way up in the air and when I came down, I smashed my left leg. They tell me to stand up. I can't. I make the rest of that ride sitting on the deck of a boat smashing through the turbulent water like Lee Crull kicking ass in a bar full of bikers.

Finally, it's over. We're at the Coast Guard station and we're safe. Somehow, I manage to hobble off the Zodiac. They give me a blanket to wrap myself in. My Aunt and Uncle are there to take me home.

The nightmare is over.

But, little known to me, an even worse one is just beginning. I get my leg checked out and it turns out it's not broken. However, it's sprained so badly, they tell me it will be six months to a year before it's back to normal.

Then, two days later, I experience some horrible complications associated with some medicine prescribed for me and I become almost literally non-functional. What I had done was stop taking the medicine because I figured I no longer needed it. Well, when my trusty assistant, Theresa flew down to drive me to a doctor, I learned you have to taper off that particular medicine... and... quitting it abruptly as I did can cause you... to die!

By the way, that experience was worse than the boat accident.

Now we're up to just a few days ago and it has occurred to me I have been very lucky lately and I need to start being even more careful than I usually am. The brakes on my car are giving me a little problem and I have been putting off having them worked on. So, I say to myself, "Self, not paying attention to stuff like this is what gets you in trouble. Go get your brakes fixed right now!"

So I do.

Lo and behold, the very next day after I get my brakes fixed, the car ahead of me on the busiest section of U.S. 1 comes to a complete stop... with... no brake lights! I hit the brakes as hard as I can. If I hadn't had them fixed, I would have "fishtailed" into the other (very busy) lane. As it was, it was impossible to stop fast enough to avoid hitting the car in front of me... so... I wrench the wheel hard to the right and hurtle off the road and down the gully. Finally, I come to a stop. I'm unhurt and my car isn't even scratched. The guy in front of me gives me a blank look, starts his car and takes off down the highway without even a backward glance. I'm sure it didn't even occur to him to check to see if I was OK.

Probably from Miami.

All of which brings me to my first important point. Now that I live back down in the Keys, I have my old personal trainer back, a small woman named Marilyn White who I affectionately refer to as the "Nazi Bitch." She's easily the best trainer I've ever had and she gets more out of me in a workout session three times a week than I would've ever believed I had in me. She's got me in such good shape and so strong most people who don't know me guess me to be ten to twenty years younger than my actual age.

I'm absolutely convinced if it weren't for my working out, my leg really would have been broken in that boating accident. As it was, like I said earlier, when they examined my leg they said it would be six months to a year until it would be OK. Well, I'd say it's 90% OK already in just over three weeks. I give credit to my workouts for that also.

And, that near accident I had on U.S. 1? What if my reaction time had been a split second slower? It could have been very bad. I think working out helped in that situation also.

You know, a few years ago, I was talking with a few of my friends and we were pondering the age-old question of what we would do if we had unlimited money. Homes in different cities. A boat on each coast. Several cars. Money to charities and research organizations we believed in. Every one of us also said, "I'd get myself a personal trainer." Then it hit us. That's something we can afford right now. I've had one ever since. You can't believe the difference it will make in your life. Get yourself a personal trainer, arrange to workout first thing in the morning and you'll be stronger, fitter, calmer, have more self-esteem, have much more of an "up" outlook on life... and...

You Will Make A Lot

More Money!

You know, whenever I write a newsletter like this, I always get a few "bitch" letters. "I don't need to know this crap. I want to know about sales letters, lead-generating ads, copywriting tricks, mailing lists, etc."

But, I nearly always get a few "rave" letters too. You know who those come from? They come from the most successful of my subscribers. The winners. People like Joe Sugarman, Ben Suarez, Ted Nicholas, Joe Polish, Robert Allen and so on.

See, these people know what it really takes to win and that your #1 Priority needs to be...

Be A Good Animal!

So, get yourself a personal trainer. Don't you dare lie to me or yourself and say you can't afford it. You can't afford not to do it! And, with what's coming up with Y2K, this is something that will be more important than ever.

More: If you are on any kind of crucial prescription medication, start now to stock up on a surplus supply. The last thing you want if you are on some heart medication or the like is not to be able to access your doctor. Remember, it is in the area of health care where the really serious problems are likely to arise. A temporary blackout and lack of electricity is an inconvenience. Failure to get the medication or medical care you need can be fatal!

What else should you do? Many alarmists will tell you to stock up on canned foods and water. It's not a bad idea. But, I wouldn't go overboard if I were you. The world is not going to fall apart; it's just going to stumble like a dead drunk sailor for a while.

Does your business depend on computers? If so, getageek to make sure they are Y2K ready NOW! Listen: These guys (the Millennium Bug Exterminators) are going to be so much in demand later this year, you probably won't even be able to hire one. Even if you can get one, if you wait much longer, you're going to have to pay through the nose.

Next: Get ready to bite the bullet. No matter what business you are in, chances are excellent your sales are going to plummet. Money is going to dry up and people are going to be afraid to spend. Get rid of all buildings, equipment, employees and expenses you can do without... and... do it soon. Look, the entire globe is connected now. Any economic problem in any country affects in some way... all other countries. A business bankruptcy in Brazil will have consequences for a hardware store in the Bronx. Turmoil in Kosovo affects folks in Kansas. (Why are we fighting over there anyway?) Russian poverty portends poorly for prosperity in Rhode Island.

Plus, things are happening faster than ever now. There's a new book called "Blur" which details the speed at which everything is changing and has some valuable advice on how you must adapt to this change. Check this out: It took from 1896 to 1972 for the Dow Jones Industrial Average to hit 1,000. That's 76 years.

It took from 1972 to 1987 for the Dow to go up another 1,000 points to over 2,000. That's 15 years.

It took from 1987 to 1991 for the next 1,000 point jump to 3,000. That's four years.

It took from 1991 to 1995 to hit 4,000. That's also four years.

It took from February of 1995 to November of 1995 to hit 5,000. That's nine months!

It took from November of 1995 to October of 1996 to hit 6,000. That's 11 months!

It took from October of 1996 to February of 1997 to hit 7,000. That's four months!

It took from February of 1997 to July of 1997 to hit 8,000. That's five months!

It took from July of 1997 to April of 1998 to hit 9,000. That's nine months!

It took from April of 1998 to March of 1999 to hit 10,000. That's 11 months!

And, how long did the last 1,000 point jump take? How long to go from 10,000 to 11,000?

Only 35 Days!

So, lemme ask you something: When things start going bad, how fast do you think it's going to happen? A hint: Last August, investors lost 500 billion in 24 hours!

Should you be fearful and morbid about all this? Not at all. It's going to be exciting. For those who are ready, a whole new world of opportunity is going to open up. I bet an investment in gold bullion coins right now will increase in value by 500%, 1000% or more by sometime next January. I bet homes, cars, boats and everything else under the sun will be for sale at dirt-cheap prices next year. I bet those of you who are fleet-footed enough to learn how to help all those poor souls totally unprepared for Y2K will be able to make a fortune.

But, you've got to be lean, healthy, fit, mobile and liquid. Think of yourself as an American soldier approaching a German farm house in WWII. You don't know whether there's a young, horny German farm girl or a Nazi sniper inside the house. But, you've got condoms in your wallet and bullets in your weapon so...

You're Ready For Whatever

Comes Out Of That House!

That's how you should be thinking about this very real Y2K problem that looms just over the horizon.

 

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

 

P.S. Next month, I'm going to reveal unto you a mail order secret that will blow your socks off!

     This month though, I felt compelled to tell you what you really needed to know and, at least attempt to shake you out of your state of "chronic denial."

         I hope to some degree, I succeeded.

         Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Make Your Advertising 750% More Profitable!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zkkj_advertising_more_profitable.htm

Click here to hear Kevin Halbert explain why this
newsletter is timeless and will always remain highly relevant

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek.


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

  Over the course of my career, I've written a veritable bushel of full-page newspaper ads. In fact, as mentioned in last month's letter, someone once calculated that if all my ads were being run by just one company (instead of separate clients) that company would be the third largest newspaper advertiser in the United States.

  Just behind Delta Airlines, they told me.

  Could that be true? I really don't know. It sounds a little far-fetched to me. However, one thing is sure: There is an excellent chance you can use what I've learned about how to make newspaper ads pay off to make yourself (or your company) a real bundle of money. Do you have a direct mail promotion that's working? If so, and especially if that direct mail package has wide consumer appeal, you should definitely consider giving daily newspapers a test.

  It's easy. First of all, your copy is already written. All you've got to do is "reformat" your direct mail package so it is suitable to run in a paper.

  Not only is it easy, it's also cheap. If you know what you're doing, you can run a full-page ad in a good test paper like the "Los Angeles Herald Examiner" or the "Fort Lauderdale News Sun Sentinel" for less than $3,000.00.

  And, not only is it cheap and easy, it's fast! If I'm really motivated, I can often take a direct mail package I receive from a client on a Monday, and have that package reappear as a full-page ad on the following Monday, just six days later.

  And you can read your results fast too. If you accept phone orders, you can often tell whether or not you have a winner the very same day the ad runs! And, even if your customer can only respond by mail, it will still only be a few days before you have the answer.

  So, with all this going for it, why don't more direct marketers use daily newspapers?

  It's the same old story: They don't know how. And neither do the ad agencies they hire to help them either. Did you know there is not one ad agency in America that knows how to insure maximum readership from a full-page newspaper ad? I'd just love to be challenged on this. If you think I'm exaggerating, just stop reading for a moment and take enough time to call your current ad agency (or any agency in the phone book) and ask them how to do it. Then, compare the info in the rest of this newsletter with the garbage you just heard on the phone.

  But so what? You didn't subscribe to this newsletter to learn my opinion of ad agencies, did you? So, let's get to the heart of it. Listen: It has often been said the three most important factors in choosing investment real estate are (1) location, (2) location and, (3) location. I think that's probably true. And, when it comes to running ads in newspapers, a similar precept needs to be held in mind. Namely the most important factor of all is...

Position! Position! Position!

  Hark unto me. The #1 reason people don't respond to a newspaper ad is because they don't see it! Daily newspapers are huge. Many of them are several hundred pages thick. In fact, a recent edition of the "L.A. Times" contained 405 pages!

  Whooee! You sure could get lost in there, couldn't you?

  Now look, if you ask a normal (dumb) advertising guy, where in the paper should you run your ad, he'll probably reply by asking what you are selling. Then, if you are selling a sporting goods item, he'll tell you, you should run in the sports section. And, if you are running an ad for an astrology book, it should go in the horoscope section. And a cookbook should go in the food section.

  And so on.

  And he'll also tell you that you should try to get a right hand page as far forward in the paper as possible.

  Actually, all this is sort of true. But it's a dangerous sort of truth. It can lead to disaster. You want to know what most advertising guys remind me of? It's this: They remind me of a guy who's had three or four karate lessons. You know what a guy like this has learned? He's learned just enough to get himself stomped silly if he ever foolishly decides to darken the door of a tough redneck bar.

  So true. Anyway, remember how I am incessantly preaching the people of America sort through their mail while standing over a wastebasket? You do remember? Good. Now, here is something else for you to keep in mind:

As Soon As The People Of America
Sit Down To Peruse Their Daily
Newspapers, They Immediately
Divide It By Sections

  A man may ask his wife for the sports pages. The wife might zero in on the food section. Their kids may ask for the comics. Entrepreneurs may want the business section. Gossip mongers may pick up the society pages.

  And so on.

  But nobody reads the entire paper. In fact, hardly anybody even opens up more than two or three sections. Think about it, do you?

  So, what does all this mean on a practical basis? This: It means the very best place your ad can appear for maximum visibility (and hence, maximum readership) is on the front page of a section.

  And the second best place? It's the back page of a section.

  Here's why. You see, even though most people don't read or even open up every section, most people at least touch every section. Yes, they touch it if for no other reason than to pick it up to hand it to someone else or to throw it away. And, while they are thus handling each section, they are forced to at least glance at the front pages of those sections and (to a lesser degree) the back pages of said sections.

  And, of course, while they are glancing at those pages, should they happen to see an eye-catching ad, an ad with a "killer" headline, they just might read a couple of paragraphs to see what it is all about. And, if those first couple of paragraphs are real good, then just maybe they'll read the rest of the ad. And, if all that happens, who knows, maybe you'll get an order.

  So, know this: Your first job is not to get your customer to read your ad. No. Your first job is to get him to see your ad!

  It's just common sense. Look: An ad that appears on the inside of the sports pages will be seen by everybody who reads the sports section. However, if that same ad appears on the front or back of any section, it will be seen not only by sports fans but also by nearly everybody who handles the paper!

  I know. I know. You think I'm making an awful big deal about this point, don't you? Well, I guess I am. But I'm not going to apologize. I don't care. I don't think there is anyone on the planet who can touch me when it comes to making full-page ads work in daily papers. And, believe it or not, as simple as it seems, you have just learned my numero uno secret which is:

Run Your Ad On The
   Front Or Back Of A
   Section!

  So much for numero uno. Now for numero duo. In a nutshell, my second big secret is:

Make Your Ad Look
   Like A News Story

  Don't make it look like an ad. Don't use line art. Don't use arrows, cute graphics, reverse type (except maybe to highlight a phone number), weird typestyles...

Or Anything Else That
Might Win An Award
For Graphic Design!

  Come closer. Listen: Here is how to "think" about your newspaper ads. Think about what could be the best possible piece of luck you could have. Think about a reporter who heard a rumor about your product or service and decided to check it out. And then, he fell in love with it. In fact, he loved it so much, he went back to his typewriter and wrote a full-page rave article about what you are selling.

  Wouldn't that be nice? Sure would. However, it is also unlikely such a thing will happen. So...

You Be That Reporter!

  You write the rave "article." Just like a reporter would. And, at the end of the article, you perform a "public service" for your readers by telling them where and how to order. But, after all this, don't screw up by having your "article" typeset to look like an ad.

  No. No. Noooo. It should be typeset to look like the "article" it is. You know, ad agencies just love to quote studies that prove how much people love to read advertising.

Garbage!  Garbage!  Garbage!

  Editorial material (or material that appears to be editorial) gets 500% more readership than material that is obviously advertising.

  So be it.

  Now, a cunningly careful, highly scientific examination of daily newspapers will yield yet another useful bit of data. Namely...

Newspapers All Come
Folded In Half

  Hmn? So what's the big deal about that? This: It is not necessary to unfold a newspaper to separate one section from another. And, what this means, of course, is that in the process of separating a newspaper by sections, a person may only have to glance at either the top half or the bottom half of the front or back page of each section.

  Not both halves.

  Now, if it's the top half at which he glances, that's fine! That's where your headline is. And we all know what a headline is, don't we? A headline, of course, is...

An Ad For Your Ad!

  But wait. What if our reader, while separating his paper into sections, is doing it in such a way so he only has to glance at the bottom half of each section? Where there is no headline? No ad for our ad?

  Gadzooks. This is no good. No good. No good. So, what we've got to do here is make sure the bottom half of our ad has several subheads (little ads for our ad) interspersed between paragraphs and printed in bold type.

Sort Of
   Like This

  What else? Oh yeah, if you really want to make newspapers work, you've also got to buy them right! This is a real art and, trust me, there aren't any ad agencies (even the big ones) who have the faintest idea of how to do it.

  Here's a story about someone who does know how. Once upon a time, I owned a publishing company with offices in North Canton, Ohio and also at 535 Madison Avenue, right in the heart of the Big Apple. Well, at that time, I was buying a truly enormous amount of newspaper space. In fact, you probably wouldn't believe just how much. So anyway, back then, one of the guys who worked for my company hired a new gal to do some secretarial work for him. Her name was Nancy Jones and, over a period of time, she got into buying media for us. Soon, she became better at buying space than any of my executives and, for sure, far better than me. The years have rolled by. My publishing company was sold many moons ago but Nancy, on her own, has continued to sharpen her space-buying skills. And, I'll tell you this:

When It Comes To Buying
Space In Daily Newspapers,
Nancy Jones Is The Best
On The Planet!

  Period.

  Proof: Here is a slightly edited and bowdlerized version of a letter Nancy wrote (I wish I could figure out some way to steal the credit and claim I wrote it) to a large number of newspapers:

 

Dear Advertising Director,

      Over the past several years, our client, the XYZ Company, has repeatedly expressed an interest in having his advertisements published in your newspaper.

      However, our agency has compared your open rate with that of newspapers where the advertisement has already been published and we have found it necessary to advise the client against including your newspaper in his advertising schedules. This decision was based mainly on the fact the client's advertisement has been profitable only in those newspapers where a stand-by or remnant rate has been offered

      As you know, stand-by simply means a newspaper agrees to publish an advertisement whenever or wherever space becomes available and offers to reduce the open line rate to the advertiser for "standing by." Space may become available due to last minute cancellations of scheduled advertisements or because of production difficulties. Whatever the reason, the newspaper will generally insert a house ad or a public service ad to fill the hole in the newspaper. Therefore, more often than not, the newspaper receives no revenue for the use of this space.

      Thus, stand-by advertising has become advantageous for both the newspaper and the advertiser. The newspaper has the opportunity to make money on space it might otherwise have to give away. The advertiser is able to use a publication it could not use at the open rate.

      More and more newspapers are becoming involved in stand-by advertising. Enclosed is a current list of newspapers offering a stand-by program and the discounts they allow. We are aware your newspaper has not offered a stand-by rate in the past but we would like very much for you to consider this possibility now. We are enclosing an insertion order for a full page, a mechanical and a check for the new amount of the order. The net amount has been computed at the open rate discounted by 50% for stand-by, normal for the industry, and 15% for the standard agency discount.

      If you accept our offer, simply hold the material until space becomes available. If and when the opportunity presents itself, run the ad, cash the check and send us a tear sheet. If you do not wish to participate at this time, simply return the check to the agency and destroy the mechanical.

      This offer expires in 15 days. Please feel free to call if you have any questions about the offer or our client.

                                        Sincerely,

                                        Nancy Jones

  So, guess what has happened as a result of that letter? This:

72% Of The Papers Responded
On A Favorable Basis And Nancy Jones
Can Now Buy More Newspapers At
A More Favorable Rate Than Any
"Sophisticated" Media Buyer
Working In Any Ad Agency
Anywhere In The U.S.!

  Here's a list of just ten papers showing the card rate (the rate ad agencies get) and the "stand-by" rate Nancy gets:

 

Name of Paper

	Daily Circ.	Open Rate	Nancy's Rate	Savings
Abilene Reporter News	51,070	$3,315.00	$1,823.25	$1,491.75
Augusta Chronicle	78,706	3,919.02	2,155.46	1,763.56
Bakeresfield Californian	81,145	3,720.78	2,455.72	1,265.06
Dayton Beach News Journal	100,232	3,715.74	2,043.66	1,672.08
Fresno Bee	138,453	6, 275.85	3,451.72	2,824.13
Las Vegas Review Journal	100,011	4,102.20	2,256.21	1,845.99
Long Beach Press Telegram	127,870	6,439.68	3,541.82	2,897.86
Nashville Journal	189,755	8,012.19	4,406.71	3,605.48
Shreveport Journal Times	99,483	6,023.01	3,312.66	2,710.35

 

  And so on.

  Note: These rates change often and this is just a few of the hundreds of papers with which Nancy deals. Not only that, I have purposely listed only a few of the little papers with whom she does business. But rest assured, she gets similar discounts from many of the biggies.

  Whatever. I'm running out of gas. Therefore, here is a summation of some of the secrets that have helped transform Sir Gary, the Ravin' Maven of Marketing into the Ace of Space and Prince of Print:

Try to run your full-page ads on either the front or the back of a section.



Make your ad look like an article.



Pepper you ad with subheads, especially the lower half (that half that appears



Buy cheap. Nancy Jones is now the official media buyer for Everett & Lloyd Advertising (owned by my honey, Paulette Teta) and you can get more info by calling (213) 273-7053 and talking with either Paulette or myself.

  A final point: Would you like to know how to get more mileage out of this newsletter? It's simple. After you've read it once for yourself, read it again aloud to someone else. You'll be surprised how this little trick will make the info and insights come alive and how it will have a synergistic effect and spark a lot of ideas.

  Besides, it will help spread the word of my wonderfulness.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
A man who is truly
"a legend in his own mind."

P.S.    Next month will be the first anniversary of this newsletter.
        Therefore, it will be a very special issue!

P.P.S.  Do you need "roll-out" money for a tested ad or direct mail package?
        If so, call me.

        And remember . . .

NOTHING  IS IMPOSSIBLE FOR 
A MAN WHO REFUSES TO
LISTEN TO REASON!

        See you next month. 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Two Most Important Direct Marketing Success Secrets In The World!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/azkk_two_secrets.htm

From:
W-A-Y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

      Joe Cossman is one of my heroes.

      He has been for a long time. Back in 1968, Joe wrote a book called How I Made $1,000,000 In Mail Order and that book is still very much worth reading today. In fact, I just finished re-reading it for the umpteenth time... and... as always, it stimulated a storm of hot ideas!

      Anyway, one of the stories Joe tells in that book is about a guy who comes out with a new cat food and he pays a lot of attention to his marketing strategy, his package design and so forth. However, the venture still flops because he neglected one critical element of market research. You see, this cat food failed because...

The Cats Hated It!

      I love cats. I've owned dozens over the years (actually, somehow, they seem to end up owning me) and I like to keep them happy. So anyway, some time ago, I discovered my cats like a product called "Moist Meals" better than dry cat food and I start buying it for them. Everybody's happy. Me and the cats. But, not being one to leave good enough alone, there I am bubbling merrily along when, I see a TV commercial for a cat food called "Fancy Feast" and, feeling adventurous, I get some and I give it to my cats.

      Big mistake. Wow! I don't know what they put in this stuff. High-tech cat-nip? Kitty Kat Kocaine? Whatever it is, my cats love this stuff. In fact, they are crazy for it! Believe it or not, it turns them into animals! I'm telling you: As soon as Paulette or I would walk downstairs to the kitchen, the little monsters would start yeowing and jumping up and down and pacing back and forth and they'd never leave us alone until we'd crack open several cans of that stuff and put it in their greedy little faces.

      So, what's the marketing moral of this story? Simply this...

You Can't Multiply Zeros!

      You know, I can teach you every trick and technique I know and it won't make one iota of difference if you are running around...

Making Offers
Everybody Can Refuse!

      And what kind of offers can we make that people will really and truly find interesting, enticing and desirable? Enough so they'll actually send money? To a stranger? Who lives 3,000 miles away?

      Let's begin circling around this crucial core question by tapping into the mind of Eugene M. Schwartz who is another one my heroes. Here's what Gene writes in the very first paragraph of the first chapter of his brilliant book called Break-Through Advertising":

    "Let's get right down to the heart of the matter. The power, the force, the overwhelming urge to own that makes advertising work, comes from the market itself, and not from the copy. Copy cannot create desire for a product. It can only take the hopes, dreams, fears and desires that already exist in the hearts of millions of people, and focus those already existing desires onto a particular product. This is the copywriter's task: Not to create this mass desire - but to channel and direct it."

      Bravo. Well said, Gene.

      Now, I bet you think you're already all tuned in to the almost universal mass desires of the American people, don't you? Well, in a sense, you're probably right... you probably do know what most people want. They want more money and less work; they want to eat more and weigh less; they want instant solutions, instant wisdom; they want eternal youth; recognition of their peers; fitness without sweat; and, in general, what most of us want in every troublesome area of our lives is...

An Effortless
Quick Fix!

      However, it's not enough to know in a general way people want more money. You've got to know what specific money-making offers will be currently appealing. Listen: Our core innermost desires (i.e., to lose weight) never change till the problem is solved... but... the weight-loss offers we will believe and buy do go in and out of fashion.

      For example, amphetamines were once in vogue but we, as a nation, won't buy those anymore. It's hard to sell us a plain old diet plan these days too. That's because, we now want (and many seem to offer) magic. We've lost our belief in protein drinks but we can still (for the time being) be sold subliminal tapes. And, if you talk to us just right, you can convince us to buy something called a "diet patch."

      All this is very tricky. To get it right, you've got to be able to recognize or create a viable timely appeal which will satisfy one of our timeless desires.

      Let's find out how good you are at this. Let's find out right now. Maybe you'll be surprised. And, who knows, maybe you'll surprise me. Whatever. Anyway, yet another of my heroes is a man named Robert Allen who wrote Nothing Down, the #1 non-fiction financial best seller of all time. Bob is not only one of my heroes, he's also a friend and a client. Recently, Bob decided to test 50 related but different appeals. These appeals are capsulized in the titles of 50 different reports he has in the initial planning stages. What he wanted to discover is which of those 50 conceptualized reports had the most appeal to his customers and prospects. Now, as you read over the titles of these proposed reports, you will notice that, having been highly influenced by Sir Gary of Halbert, Bob Allen is now one of those people who has started thinking in headlines.

      Hark unto me. You are about to take a test. And, if you score higher than any of my other subscribers, you are going to win a free 1-year extension to your subscription of this newsletter. What I want you to do is read all 50 titles of Bob Allen's proposed reports and try to pick out the top ten (the ones his customers want most) and the bottom ten (the ones they want least) and mail your picks to me.

      Whether you win the contest or not, this will be a very illuminating exercise for you. All of the titles are numbered so, what I want you to do is: Write the word "Winners" on a piece of paper and then write the numbers of what you believe are the 10 most saleable reports. Next write "Losers" and then the numbers of the 10 reports you believe have the least sales appeal.

      Then, mail your picks to me and read next month's issue to see if you've won. (I've got Bob's results; I already know the answers.)

Go!

1.	How The Experts Earn At The Rate Of A Million Dollars A Day And How You Can Realistically Reach That Level In Three Years Or Less

	2.	HOW TO PERSUADE ANYONE
 TO YOUR SIDE IN
FIFTEEN MINUTES
OR LESS


3.	

HOW TO INCREASE YOUR
INCOME BY 50%
(AND QUITE POSSIBLY 300%)
THE SAFEST AND 
FASTEST WAY POSSIBLE

	4.	World Famous Expert On
Success Reveals 7 Of His
Most Effective And Powerful
Cutting Edge Techniques


5.	Why The Golden Rule 
Rarely Works In Today's 
World And What To 
Do About It	6.	MULTI-MILLIONAIRE TELLS YOU HOW
TO MAKE YOUR FIRST MILLION A
LOT QUICKER, EASIER AND
SAFER THAN HE DID IT


7.	

SEVEN MAJOR MISTAKES
YOU MUST AVOID
ON THE ROUTE TO
SUCCESS

	8.	A Simple Strategy You Can
Use To Produce Almost Obscene
Amounts Of Profit In Your
Real Estate Investments


9.	Thirteen Inexpensive, Proven
Classified Ads You Can Run In Your Local Paper To Find All The Highly Motivated Sellers You'll Ever Need

	10.	

A SUREFIRE FIVE STEP
PROPERTY ANALYSIS FORM THAT
TAKES THE GUESSWORK OUT OF
YOUR REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS


11.	THE OBVIOUS MISTAKE THAT ALMOST
EVERYONE MAKES WHICH MAKES IT
ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE FOR THEM TO GAIN
CONTROL OF THEIR TIME AND LIFE

	12.	5 Virtually
Risk Free Ways To
Increase Your Income
Almost Overnight


13.	

How To Gain An Extra Two
Hours Of Productivity Every
Day With The Discovery Of The
World's Most Powerful Time
Management Principle

	14.	

THE TOP 6
TECHNIQUES THAT
WILL HELP YOU
GET RESULTS,
FAST!


15.	3 OF THE LATEST
SUPER-HIGH
INCOME STRATEGIES
FOR REAL ESTATE
INVESTORS

	16.	

Reluctant Multi-Millionaire
Finally Reveals How He Discovered
The Amazing Idea That Made Him
Fifty Million Dollars In The
Last Ten Years


17.	Astonishing New Technique Nets Young Woman A Legitimate Twelve
Fold Increase In Her Monthly Income In Just 6 Months

	18.	

WHY THE PROCRASTINATION
HABIT IS
VITAL TO YOUR
LONG TERM SUCCESS!


19.	HOW TO
CUT YOUR TIME TO
THE TOP
IN HALF

	20.	

Invest Just Two Hours A Week
And I'll Show You How To
Double Your Income
In Just 12 Months


21.	How 27 People Just Like You
Doubled Their Income In
Just 90 Days And How You
Can Too

	22.	

INTERNATIONAL SUCCESS EXPERT
REVEALS THE SINGLE MOST IMPORTANT
TECHNIQUE YOU WILL EVER LEARN
ABOUT FINANCIAL SUCCESS


23.	

THE GENIUS OF A NEW MONEY
MAKING SYSTEM REDUCED TO
EASY, SIMPLE FORMULAS THAT
ANYONE CAN FOLLOW

	24.	

The New Science Of
Super-Motivation Or
Why Goals
Don't Work


25.	

One Idea Can Change Your
Life Forever: A Collection Of
50 Of The Most Powerful Life
Changing Ideas

	26.	

HOW TO
GET YOUR ACT
TOGETHER ONCE AND
FOR ALL


27.	

MAKE MORE MONEY NEXT WEEK(REALLY!)
WITH FINANCIAL EXPERTS' LATEST
IDEAS GLEANED FROM THE
SCHOOL OF HARD KNOCKS

	28.	

How To
Motivate Yourself Even
When You Don't
Feel Like It


29.	

Multiply Your Income Almost
Immediately With
International Money Experts'
New Money Making System

	30.	

THE AMAZING SECRET OF WHY
CERTAIN PEOPLE NATURALLY BECOME
SUCCESSFUL - AND HOW YOU CAN USE
THIS SAME SECRET TO ATTRACT
MORE SUCCESS


31.	

WHY 93% OF THE PEOPLE WHO
DESIRE FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE
FAIL TO REACH
THEIR GOAL

	32.	

An Incredibly Fast, Simple
Technique Guaranteed To
Double Your Memory Power In
Thirty Minutes Or Less


33.	

The Amazing Mind/Body
Connection Or How To
Think Yourself
Healthy

	34.	

LISTENING TO MOTIVATION TAPES IS
NOT ONLY A WASTE OF TIME BUT
CAN BE DANGEROUS TO YOUR
WEALTH


35.	

AMAZING MONEY SECRETS THAT
WILL HELP YOU
BUILD YOUR FINANCIAL HOUSE
UPON A ROCK

	36.	

How To Give Yourself A
Raise: The Three Simple
Secrets To Working Less, Making
More And Being Happier


37.	

How To
Turn "No Credit" Or
"Bad Credit" Into
GREAT Credit In
90 Days Or Less 

	38.	YOU'RE FLUSHING GOOD MONEY
DOWN THE DRAIN! 27 WAYS YOU
MAY HAVE NEVER THOUGHT ABOUT
TO SAVE HUNDREDS OF
DOLLARS A MONTH
39.	HOW TO TURN ON THE MONEY
FAUCETS THAT WILL FLOOD YOU
WITH MORE MONEY THAN YOU EVER
DREAMED POSSIBLE
(NO JOKING!)

	40.	The Three Safest Routes To
The Top Of The Money
Mountain And How To
Know Which Route Is
Right For You


41.	Seven Simple Steps To
Reducing Or Eliminating Your
Risk In An Increasingly
Dangerous Society

	42.	

NATIONS TOP 3 MONEY EXPERTS
REVEAL THEIR THREE SAFEST AND
FASTEST TECHNIQUES FOR MAKING
TEN TIMES YOUR MONEY IN
LESS THAN 90 DAYS


43.	AN ASTONISHING FAST BRAIN/MIND
TECHNIQUE YOU CAN USE TO
SUPERCHARGE YOUR THINKING,
EXPAND YOUR CREATIVITY AND
DRAMATICALLY INCREASE YOUR
SELF-CONFIDENCE!

	44.	

Professor Shares His
Little Known Method For
Turning Troubled
Relationships Into Terrific
Relationships In As Short A
Time As 7 Days


45.	

How To Feel Good Every
Time Someone Rejects You
And To Turn That Rejection Into
The Power To Motivate You To
Be More Successful

	46.	

10 TOP SALES PROFESSIONALS
DISCUSS THEIR MOST POWERFUL
SALES AND PERSUASION
TECHNIQUES AND SHOW YOU HOW
TO USE THEM


47.	

HOW TO USE THE AWESOME
POWER OF YOUR BRAIN 
TO BRING YOU ANYTHING YOU
WANT IN LIFE

	48.	

Power With People: A
Simple System Of Easy
Techniques To Dramatically
Improve Your Relationships With
Anyone In Your Life


49.	

How To Create A
Fool-Proof Cash Cow Business
From Your Own Home With
Almost No Start-Up Cost

	50.	

HOW TO DISCOVER YOUR LIFE'S
PURPOSE... A SIMPLE THREE STEP
PROCESS THAT WILL HELP YOU
UNCOVER YOUR NATURAL ABILITY AND 
MOVE MORE QUICKLY DOWN THE ROAD
TO MORE SUCCESS AND FULFILLMENT
IN ALL AREAS OF YOUR LIFE 

      Enough of that. We'll come back to this subject next month. Meanwhile, back at the ranch, let's get back to writing copy. OK? OK. Now, I want you to imagine something. I want you to imagine what the best thing in the world would be, that could happen to you from a sales point-of-view.

      How about this? What if some hotshot reporter who works for the L.A. Times, the New York Times, or some other big circulation magazine, happens to purchase one or more of your products and/or services... and...

He Falls In Love
With What You Are
Selling!

      Whooee! He loves your goods so much he races back to his typewriter and he writes a full-page "rave review" about whatever it is you are selling. Let's say it's a book about how to make money in real estate, OK?

      What would our reporter do as he starts to write his rave review? Well, maybe he'd start with a headline like this:

New Book By San Diego
Man Reveals An Almost
Magical Way To Make Money
In Today's Real Estate Market!

      Hmn? How'd ya like it so far? OK, what would our rave review writer write next? Maybe something like... DATELINE SAN DIEGO.

      And, after that, maybe his first sentence will be something like...

    "If you are interested in making money in real estate, there is a new book you must read."

      And what would our rave reviewer say next? Maybe something like...

    "Here's why."

      And what would he tell them next? He'd tell them... why.

      He'd tell how the book clearly and succinctly explains a new but proven technique that lets you buy income-producing real estate with no money down even if your credit is lousy... how this book reveals how you can always be the very first vulture at the widow's doorstep... how this book reveals an almost completely unknown and unique financing method that lets you get 110% financing on the equity of the property... how a new "radar technique" lets you identify properties in distress in advance of when they go into foreclosure... how this reporter himself tested out the technique on page 93 and made $17,531.19 just last Tuesday... how...

      Hey, you've got the idea, don't you?

      And what would our rave review writer after all this? Simply this: What he would do as a public service is, he would tell you where and how to order this wonderful book.

      There's just one problem. You see...

All This Is Very
Unlikely To Happen!

      Sadly, there probably isn't a reporter who is going to crawl out of the woodwork and write a "rave review" of your product or service. So what should you do? Simply this.

      You be that reporter; you write that rave review. You publish (buy) that full-page in the L.A. Times or whatever.

      And you make damn sure your "rave review" looks like just that and not an ad. You use relevant photos just like in a hot news story. And you use an editorial type format...

Just Like The Rest
Of The News Stories
In That Publication!

      In the meantime, you get busy and mail your test into me.

You Will Be Graded!

            Peace,

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

P.S.	Stuck for a stamp? Call my electronic mailbox and leave your name and your test answers on the machine. The number is...
	

(xxx) xxx-xxxx


P.P.S.	Remember... you've got a valuable prize at stake and tardiness will not be tolerated!

UPDATE: My father just finished explaining that even though the core desires of prospects never change, what solutions they are willing to buy does change over time.

Keep that in mind if you are taking the headline challenge. These were written back in the 80s so factor this into your choices. I know I will because...

It's been a long time since I took this test and I'm about to take it again because it really hammers home the need for more testing and less assuming.

The only other thing I want to add to this letter is about editorial style ads.

There is an even better way to enhance this idea and put loads of instant credibility in your promotions.

Here is how it works.

Write a press release just as if you are a journalist who discovered and wants to brag about your great business.

Format and write your press release just like it came out of a newspaper only... prioritize what you say in the release like you would an ad or sales letter.

Mention your most enticing benefits first.

Add a sense of urgency and all the rest of it.

But, make sure you write it like a reporter would. Now go run the release on PR Newsire or any news service. This will set you back like $60.

If a news outlet picks up the story great but...

What you really want to do is grab a screen shot of that press release after it has been published and use it in all your marketing.

In fact, Kevin and I recently created a video explaining the secrets behind the wild success of our father's record-breaking diet promotion in which he used this technique and boy did it work.

Back in those days it was only profitable to mail diet offers to lists of previous diet buyers but that ad was so powerful for so many reasons, they made a profit on any list with a large number of overweight people.

If you haven't seen our breakdown of that ad you should think about getting it because... we also use the ad as an example to explain tons of powerful techniques like this which will work in your industry or you get your money back..

You can find out more about what's indside this epic ad breakdown here:

http://halbertising.com/gary-halbert-ad-breakdown-berry-trim-10/

All the best, Bond PS Keep this email or bookmark the webpage so you can compare results in the next issue.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Why Multi-Level Marketing Sucks!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zdla_multi_level_marketing.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek,


Dear Friend & Subscriber,


What I am about to write, I should have written a long time ago.

You know, hardly a day goes by that I don't get one or more requests to help someone with some sort of multi-level or "network" marketing scheme. Anymore, I don't even return the telephone calls or answer the letters. In fact, my staff has instructions to automatically destroy all communications from people who want my help in these areas and to not even tell me about their inquiry.

In *one of my recent seminars, there was a couple of guys who didn't tell me they were involved in multi-level marketing until they got up on the "hot seat." Everything they were involved in was a total scam. Well, I let them and the audience talk for a while and then... I let them have it. I've never behaved that way or used that kind of language at a seminar before and, I hope I never do again.

After the hot seat, we threw them out of the seminar.

Now look, just in case there is any remaining doubt in anybody's mind about how I feel on this subject, please underline the following sentence in your mind:

MULTI-LEVEL MARKETING SUCKS!

It sucks big time. It's dorky, it's dangerous, it's sleazy and it's stupid. It is a magnet for slime. It is true that not every product sold by multi-level marketing is inferior. It is also true not every person involved in this nonsense is unethical. I must admit their are some (very few) good products and some (very few) good people involved in this insanity. However, even though it sometimes involves good products and good people...

Multi-Level Marketing Is
Always Stupid!

The "rap" on one recent multi-level scam is that, some time ago, there was a product developed which enhances gas mileage by 30% or more. However, until recently, this product was not put on the market because it was too bulky and, therefore, difficult and expensive to ship. But now, lo and behold, modern technology has enabled scientists to "concentrate" this product down into something called a "green bean"... and... all you have to do is pop one of these little dudes into your gas tank and you can cut your fuel bills by a huge percentage.

What a joke. If all this were true, you certainly wouldn't have to peddle this little miracle by multi-level. Actually, you wouldn't even need to do any kind of conventional marketing. No way. If all this were true, all you'd need was...

A Press Conference!

What you'd do is, you'd stand in front of a group of reporters and say, "Look, I know you're all skeptical and I don't blame you. However, this little green bean really does work and we are going to pass several of them out to each of you. All I want you to do is plop one of them into your gas tank the next time you fill up and then, keep a careful record of your gas mileage. After you do this for a couple of weeks, the results will speak for themselves."

What would happen then, if this green bean really worked? It's simple; you'd have a nationwide sensation on your hands. Individuals and organizations would be beating down your door. You'd be all over the evening news in a flash. You'd be on *Jay Leno, Oprah and all the rest. But, alas, the "green bean" cannot be promoted like this because...

It's A Fraud!

Just like all the multi-level cosmetics and vitamins that are going to give you back your youth. Just like that stupid "gold scam" where you buy "right to purchase more" certificates you are then supposed to go out and sell to other people who are just as gullible as you. But what about the legitimate products being sold via multi-level? Consider this: There was a nice man who came to my seminar in Los Angeles at the Century Plaza who had an entire catalog of good stuff to sell. He wanted my help on focusing down on which product he should concentrate on selling. One of his products was an oriental weight-loss plan and I suggested he concentrate on that. He said fine and would I teach him how to build a huge "downline" to sell the product?

Reluctantly, I said I would but only if first, he would give me a chance to talk him out of it. Then I told him that currently, one of my clients was mailing a weight-loss promotion to the tune of 125,000 first-class letters per day! Then, I asked him, "How many people would you have to have in your downline to achieve the sales my client is getting in just one single week?"

The point is this: If you have something good to sell, sell it! Don't sell somebody else on the idea of selling somebody else to sell somebody else to sell somebody else, etc., etc., etc.

One of the current dumb MLM ideas is based on a telephone deal that will lower a person's telephone bill. Assuming this deal is legitimate, wouldn't it be faster, more profitable and less hassle to sell this by direct mail? All you'd have to do is get one of the big compilers to rent you a mailing list which included phone numbers (there are tens of millions of such names) and then mail a letter that starts out something like this:

 



June 6, 1991

Rodney Efferheart
7496 Caleb Street
Lorimar, CA  33099

Dear Rodney,

            You and I have never met but I know three things about you:

            1. You live on Caleb Street in Lorimar, California.

            2. Your telephone number is (907) 489-1633.

            3. Your telephone bills are way too high!

            How do I know all this? Well, #1 and #2 are simply a matter of public record. And, as far as #3 is conceerned, I've recently learned that nearly everybody's phone bill in Lorimar is way too high!

            Here's the scoop. Etc., etc., etc., blah, blah, blah, and so forth...

 

 

 

Think about this, dear subscriber: It would only cost you a few hundred smackers to test such a letter and, if it worked, you could easily "snowball" this thing until you were mailing over 100,000 letters per week...

Almost Forever!

Assuming you were getting say a 5% response from your letter, you'd be taking in about 1,000 orders every working day. Now, I ask you, how many DD's ("Downline Dorks") would it take you to equal that kind of action? What if, for example, when I created the famous coat-of-arms promotion, I decided to sell those family crest reports by MLM? How well would I have done? Well, by selling them by direct mail, we sometimes took in 20,000 checks per day. Tell me, how many DD's would you have to have to equal that?

The whole idea of MLM is stupid. It's also depressing. What's more, MLM has something in common with a pretty woman, which is...

Both Of Them Can
Lower Your I.Q.!

Ever try to talk rationally to a guy who is in love? You're wasting your time. The object of his affection could be an ax murderess and he'd still see nothing but good in her.

So it is with MLM. Take a super smart guy like Howard Ruff, get him on the subject of MLM and there, right before your eyes, you'll see his eyes glaze over and his brain begin to melt. He will become unreachable and unteachable. Burn him once and he'll come back for more. Because, as they say, "It's not the concept that was bad, it was the people."

Wrong. Everything about MLM is bad. MLM is not inherently evil but it does (nearly always) attract inherently evil people. Even if you start out with good products, good intentions and good people, you will eventually, if you grow a little, attract a massive amount of human scum into your operation. And, even if this were not true, the whole idea is still stupid. When you shuck right down to the cob, MLM is simply a magnet for lazy people who are looking for a way to sell without selling.

The whole thing sucks.

Now, let me save some of you some time and energy. Many people are going to read what I've just written and they are going to want to explain to me where I've missed the boat. They'll say, "Yes, what you say is normally true, but this deal is different. We've got the greatest product in the world and it's totally backed up by unbiased scientific research. Not only that, some of the finest people in America are in our organization. We've got lawyers, judges, doctors, millionaires, clergymen, and so on. Yes Gary, what you say is usually right but us... we're different."

I don't care. What you're doing is still stupid and, as far as I'm concerned, you can take your "green beans," your Nu-Skin, your wonder vitamins, your gold certificates, etc. and...

Stuff 'Em Where
The Sun Don't Shine!

I wonder, could there be anyone out there still confused about how I feel about MLM? Yes, I'm sure there are since, in my opinion, MLM is an I.Q. lowering drug that should probably be regulated by the FDA. Therefore, for those of you reading this who want to write or phone me about MLM, you'll be wasting your time. My staff has been told they can be fired just for giving me a message from someone who is writing or phoning about MLM. If you are involved in MLM, I don't want you at my seminars, I don't want to hear your voice on the phone, I don't want to read your letters, I don't want to meet you in person and basically...

I Don't Even Want
To Know Of Your Existence!

Now look, there's nothing wrong with looking for an easy way to make a buck as long as it's legal, slime-free and ethical. So, after having trashed MLM, I feel I owe it to you to reveal unto you a genuine "magic way" to make some money. I am looking at you right now in my mind's eye. You're sitting there reading this letter and you're saying to yourself, "Gosh, Gary's right about MLM but I sure wish he'd give me a fool-proof, can't-fail plan that will pull in fungolas like crazy. Something that will work anywhere. Something I can do all by myself. Something that will work over and over and has an unlimited potential."

Am I right? Isn't that what you're thinking? What's that? You say I'm not right? You say you have no interest in an ethical new way to rake in huge piles of cash?

OK fine, then I'll write about something else. Did I ever tell you about the time I was in a bar in Germany when this girl came over to me and...

JUST KIDDING! JUST KIDDING! I will tell you. I swear. I'll do it right now.

OK, to begin with, here is what should be one of the most exciting sentences you will ever read:

"90% Of All Business Owners In
America Have Never Written A Sales
Letter To Their Customers!"

Think about what this means! It means there are millions and millions of fungolas just laying around out there waiting for someone to pick them up. This is a jackpot situation! Here's how to exploit this baby:

Step #1:	

Cut out all ads of local business owners in the yellow pages of your telephone book.




Step #2:	Cut out all ads of local business owners that have ran in your local newspaper in the last week or so.


Step #3:	Write a personal letter to 100 of these business owners and tell each one you saw his ad recently and you have a proven idea he can use (at no cost to him) that will generate a lot of profit for his business in the next two weeks.


Step #4:	Send out all 100 of these letters by Federal Express. (Don't economize here. Don't use first-class mail, certified mail, UPS, Express Mail or anything else.) Dammit, use Federal Express!


Step #5:	Wait 1-day and then call each of these business owners and ask if he got your Fed Ex letter and chat him up a bit and ask him if you can have a five minute personal meeting with him.


Step #6:	Go to all your appointments and interview each business owner. What you want to find out is (1) Does he seem like an OK guy you could work with, and if so, (2) How many names are there on his customer list, and (3) What product or service does he have that has a large profit margin that is already a good seller.



OK, that's the first half of what you do. Now, just for the heck of it, let's say one of the guys you are talking with is the owner of an art gallery and he has just received a shipment of original oil paintings done by a famous artist. During the course of your interview you discover these oil paintings are priced in the $12,000 to $15,000 range which is a 50% mark-up over dealer's cost. What you do next is, you tell the gallery owner you want to take a shot at selling those paintings for him for an average of $2,000 more than he was going to sell them for and that extra $2,000 will be your "commission." Tell him you are going to write a sales letter to all of his customers which will make many of them come to his gallery with checkbook in hand.

He'll either agree or he won't. Don't waste a lot of time trying to convince him. If he's not a savvy, fair-minded guy, simply go to the next person on your list. This is simply a game of percentages. What you are doing is fishing. You're trying to locate a savvy guy, an honest guy, a guy with a good sense of humor, an easy-to-work-with likeable guy who will be happy to allow you to increase his sales on a basis that is risk-free to him.

Work this plan and you will find such people. Once you do, you then shake hands on a deal and you proceed as follows:

Step #7:	Write a sales letter about those oil paintings. Tell how they just arrived, how they are in limited supply, how they represent a good investment potential, how beautiful they are, etc. Then, invite the reader to a private viewing of those paintings.


Step #8:	Send out 100 of these letters via Federal Express.


Step #9: 	Wait 1-day and then call each of these customers, ask if he got your Federal Express letter and chat him up a bit and "nudge" him to come to the private viewing.


Step #10:	Go to to the private viewing yourself, help the owner pull off this shindig and collect your commissions... and then...



Work This Same Plan (And
Variations Of It) Over And Over
And Over With Various Business Owners!

Summed up, this plan is very simple: Locate business owners who sell high mark-up goods who have a healthy customer list to whom they have never mailed a sales letter and then you write sales letters to those customers and take a cut of all sales that result.

A few fine points: (A) Do not approach these business owners as a marketing consultant or an advertising expert. Approach them as an investor. (B) Don't use the owner's money even if he wants you to. Use your own. This is very important because it will immediately establish the "tone" of your relationship. (C) Don't "sell" these business owners very hard. You are looking for the "gold" among these guys and you'll wear yourself out if you run around trying to turn sow's ears into silk purses. Deal only with those who are eager for your proposition. (D) Value yourself. Don't act as though anybody is doing you a favor by granting you the interview. If anything, it's you that's doing the favor. (E) And finally... stop worrying about whether or not you are going to be cheated in one of the deals. You will be. That's part of life. Just keep moving, holding on to the quality, discarding the trash... and... someday, you'll have an extended family of clients, friends, lovers, associates, employees and so on who are "human gems" that add sparkle, quality, laughter, support and love to your life.

People like all the neat folks in my life!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.	Please do not misinterpret what I wrote about Howard Ruff. He's a very intelligent, very savvy, moral man. I suspect his I.Q. is far higher than mine and I've learned a lot from him. I read his letter, listen to his lectures and I have enormous respect for him. It's just that when he's "on" MLM he, like everybody else, loses his ability to think straight.


	Sort of like me, when I was on the beach in Cannes and I saw all those... ah, forget it.


P.S. #2	I am now in the process of sending a personal thank you note to everyone who made a contribution to the Domestic Abuse Shelter. Not only that, those of you who responded are about to be let in on one of the hottest ways to make money I have come across in the last 10 years!


	Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you!

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Halbert Index!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zdls_halbert_index.htm

Don't let 
the kids see this
         "if James used the effort
toward his studies that he uses
   to be humorous, he'd be an A
student."
                        --from Jay Leno's
                fifth-grade report card,
           quoted in Time magazine.

 

 

From:
South of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Today, we're going to discuss the "Halbert Index."

The Halbert Index is a totally unique way of classifying people. To be at the top of the Index you must have the following:

  (1)      You must have a life, and

  (2)      You must have a sense of humor, and

  (3)      You must have intelligence and be an independent thinker, and

  (4)      You must be a generous and giving person but... at the same time...

  (5)      You must refuse to take shit from anyone who doesn't have a gun to your head, and

  (6)      You must be willing to take chances and cheerfully accept losses, and

  (7)       You must have the capacity and courage for true intimacy with your loved ones, friends... and sometimes... even your associates and strangers, and

  (8)      You must be wealthy always in your mind... and therefore... very often... in your pocket, and

  (9)      You must be honest and have integrity not defined by laws but rather, by the inner-core of your being, and finally

(10)      You must have a relationship with a higher power (nicknamed "God") that does not necessarily include and/or often transcends any association with an organized religion.

What have I described here? Simply this:

A Player!

Listen, I have found my newsletters, my speeches and my personality seem to be like a giant meat cleaver cutting through the sea of humanity... separating those who have any type of contact with me into two very distinct groups. One group is made up of zestful, hard-working, risk-taking, fun-loving Players. The other group consists of losers unable to laugh at themselves and who are scared witless at the idea of taking risks.

Losers (those poor souls at the bottom rungs of the Halbert Index) have a number of common characteristics:

  (1)      They are generally spectators instead of players, and

  (2)      They are usually critics who revel in grading people with whom they can't compete, and

  (3)      Sometimes, they have financial wealth (most often they don't) but they are always poor in their minds, and

  (4)      They get their pseudo self-esteem from the grades given to them by others and have no innate "sense of being" nor a core of natural integrity, and

  (5)      They think they have a sense of humor but they don't, since they can only laugh at jokes made at the expense of others and they always fail to see the ludicrousness of much of their own endeavors, and

  (6)      They often have intelligence in a technical way but almost no ability whatsoever for true independent and innovative thought, and

  (7)      They lack courage and will study and "rehearse" endlessly but, will avoid at all costs ever letting the curtain come up... unless... someone else has agreed to star in the play, and

  (8)      They don't understand true morality. Therefore, they are much more concerned with what's legal rather than with what's right, and

  (9)      They will be as obnoxious and abusive as possible to those under them but, will kiss ass like crazy to curry favor with their superiors, and finally

(10)      Many of them will have college degrees but will never recognize these degrees as the silly jokes they are... and... they are unable to grasp the vital fact all true education is self education.

Basically, what we have here is a group of losers who are permeated with a small-minded, mean-spiritedness that vacuums out the vitality and zest of those around them. You may be interested in knowing there is a scientific way of describing these people...

They Suck!

Well, so what? What does all this have to do with you, with marketing, and with making money?

A lot. You see, as a general rule, it is always easier to do business with and market stuff to people very high on the Halbert Index (Players) and this is especially true in an economic slump. Why? Simply because, no matter how bad the economy gets... these people will never succumb to a "depression mindset." A depression mindset is a sales killer. People who have it (more than 90% of our population) are running scared and have totally lost the belief (if they ever had it) they have the ability to fashion their own futures. They believe their fate is up to the economy... or... whatever politician gets elected... or... whether or not they can get a "good enough grade" from some employer or educational institution. Almost everyone high on the Halbert Index is a reader and virtually none of them are heavy TV viewers. You see, almost all real wisdom comes from printed material and the streets; practically never does even a smidgen of it come from TV broadcasts.

Want to know where else it doesn't come from? Schools! Basically, our school system teaches people to obey... not... to think. There are seven principal lessons taught by the school systems in the United States. They are confusion, class position, indifference, emotional dependency, intellectual dependency, provisional self-esteem, and that "no one can hide." This is a national tragedy. You see, genius is an exceedingly common human quality, probably natural to most of us... and...

Our School System Works To Inhibit
This Natural Genius Rather Than Release It!

School is jail for children. The school system doesn't need to be revamped, altered or tinkered with... it needs to be destroyed. Consider these facts: (A) Our nation ranks at the bottom of 19 industrial nations in reading, writing and arithmetic. (B) The world's narcotic economy is based on our consumption of this commodity. (C) Our teenage suicide rate is the highest in the world. The truth is, our schools don't really teach anything... except... how to live your life as a loser.

Doesn't that sound just like the rhetoric you'd expect from a maverick like me? Well, it's not from me. Everything you've just read about the school system in America comes from a new book titled, Dumbing Us Down written by John Taylor Gatto. Mr. Gatto is not only one of the most respected teachers in the world but, he has won numerous awards including the 1991 award of the New York State...

Teacher Of The Year!

If you've got kids, you'd better read this book. It'll open your eyes, make you want to puke and, for sure, if you're anywhere near the top of the Halbert Index, it'll cause you to immedi-ately consider pulling your kids out of school. Here is what kind of children, according to John Taylor Gatto, our school system is producing: (1) Children who are indifferent to the adult world. (2) Children who have almost no curiosity. (3) Children who are cruel to each other and lack compassion for the misfortunes of others. (4) Children who have a poor sense of the future. (5) Children who have no sense of, or interest in, the lessons of the past. (Basically, the exact moment these kids are in is the boundary of their conscienceness.) (6) Children who cannot deal with intimacy or candor.

Mr. Gatto has much more to say that I can summarize here but, there is one sentence in this book that virtually leapt off the page at me. He said,

"The Richer The Kid, The Less
Television He Or She Watches!"

Whatever. Whatever. Whatever. Where am I going with all this? Ok, listen: There are two basic types of businesses that do well in an economic slump. The first type of company would be a well-run giant conglomerate with monstrous purchasing power enabling it to buy and sell staples (and other commodities Americans feel they can't do without) at the lowest possible prices. The best example of this type of business would be Wal-Mart which, last year, during the most disastrous holiday retail season in 30-years, posted an enormous gain in gross sales and profits. You know, when a new Wal-Mart comes to town, the other retailers go into a panic. And rightly so. Because... no local retailer can hope to even come close to Wal-Mart's prices. Not only that, Wal-Mart is mostly employee-owned and thus offers superior, courteous and concerned service. Plus, they are hyped by none other than Paul Harvey who can arguably be considered the most-trusted product pitchman in America.

Is it any wonder Wal-Mart is the largest retailer in the world?

All this has created a curious and profitable niche for one sharp guy who, when Wal-Mart announces it's coming to town, goes around and counsels the frightened local retailers. Basically, what he tells them is... don't even think about competing with Wal-Mart on a head-to-head basis founded on price. Instead, he tells them, they must start offering unique customized products along with unique customized services. I go along with this advice. However, for you, dear reader, I want to illuminate another idea that can make the above advice perhaps 1,000% even more profitable!

What I want to impress upon you is... if possible... you should endeavor to confine your selling efforts to...

Players With Money!

Why? First of all, it is easier to sell something to someone with money. It's an obvious fact that person has the money to buy what you're selling. If you've got a $500,000 house for sale, it doesn't matter how appealing the house is if the family you're pitching it to has a pitifully low total income.

But there's another fact you mustn't overlook. People with money usually means they also have an important character trait most of the "sheep" out there don't possess. Namely...

They Have The Ability
To Make A Decision!

And... without talking it over with their spouse, their lawyer, their CPA, or their mommy. Usually, people with money got their loot because their lives are filled with independent thought and movement. These people with a high Halbert Index also possess another rare commodity. Namely... the ability to recognize true value. In other words, yes, it's true these people are easier to sell than Joe Average but... only if you offer true value!

Reflect, for a moment, on what I sell. This would include a high-priced, rather arrogant newsletter, expensive seminars, expensive videos, audios, printed information packages, client services, etc. Who won't buy my material? Basically, stupid, lazy people who relate its value to how much it weighs and how much "bulk" they receive. Who does buy my material? The answer is easy...

Players With Money!

Want some proof? Recently I did a per capita analysis of the readers of my newsletter by State. The ten States with the highest per capita readership of this newsletter are: (1) Vermont, (2) Texas, (3) Nevada, (4) Colorado, (5) Alaska, (6) Arizona, (7) Utah, (8) Washington,         (9) California, and (10) Hawaii.

The ten States with the lowest per capita readership of this newsletter are: (1) West Virginia (by far the worst of all. Could this have anything to do with the fact I was born there?),         (2) Kentucky, (3) Nebraska, (4) Mississippi, (5) South Dakota, (6) Tennessee, (7) South Carolina, (8) Iowa, (9) North Dakota, and (10) Louisiana.

These two groups of States are separated by a dramatic difference in per capita income. Want to know the difference in the average four-member family income from the highest State (Vermont) to the lowest (West Virginia)? It's a staggering $14,800. And get this: The per capita readership of my newsletter in Vermont as opposed to the readership in West Virginia is...

900% Higher!

Pay attention here. This does have meaning for you. Remember what Willy Sutton said when asked why he robbed banks? "Because that's where the money is!" So, to get to the bottom-line, here's what I'm suggesting: If you haven't done so already...

Start Thinking About Developing
High-Priced, High-Profit Products
And Services With Enormous Value!

And secondly...

Start Thinking About Selling
Your High-Priced, High-Profit Products
And Services With Enormous Value
To Players With Money!

Pretty simple concepts, aren't they? But, simple or not, this kind of thinking can separate you from the poverty of the brain-dead masses and catapult you into the ranks of those lucky folks who enjoy total financial freedom. However, to help you implement these concepts, I feel I need to give you some tips on (A) What to sell to these people, and (B) How to locate them.

First, what are "PWM's" (Players With Money) most likely to buy? Well, for openers, they are extremely willing to shell out money for what they did not get in school. Namely... an education. PWM's learn very early almost nothing taught in school has any commercial value whatsoever. For one thing, our school system teaches absolutely nothing about how to be an entrepreneur. And, of course, almost all PWM's are entrepreneurs. They have to be. After all, being an entrepreneur is almost the only way to make truly serious money either here or in any other country in the world. So, what kind of education does an entrepreneur need? He needs an education on "how to sell"... because... none of his high school or college classes even touched on this subject. So, PWM's make up the largest segment of the market for books, seminars, video tapes, audio tapes, lectures and anything else that can help them become more skilled in the art of selling. They also make up the largest share of the market for information on other money-related matters... such as management, how to invest their profits, international currency fluctuations, stock and commodity speculations, reducing their tax burden and so on.

What else besides education are PWM's eager to purchase? They are also eager to purchase... INSPIRATION! I don't mean phony/baloney types of inspiration like the horseshit sold by televangelists. Nor do I mean stupid tapes with hidden "subliminal" messages (they've been proven not to work) that supposedly bombard your mind with positive "you can do it" rah-rah types of messages. No, the type of inspiration I'm talking about is the kind you get from listening to the experiences of other PWM's who have made it big by overcoming the same types of obstacles all of us have to face with deadening regularity. True inspiration, effective inspiration is more than just a hyper-excitable speaker who is able to froth a room full of people into a frenzy with empty "pump up" catchy phrases.

For example, I think guys like Zig Ziglar do some good but mostly, they leave people all dressed up with no place to go. They get you all enthused... but... they don't give you any specific blueprint that tells you how to profitably harness that enthusiasm. If you want to get some real inspiration, the best source is listening to a talk by a person who started out with nothing except the handicap of 12 or 16 years of schooling... and then... hearing him explain step-by-step in minute detail how he overcame this deadening handicap and went on to become a PWM in the field of his choice.

By the way, speakers at multi-level rallies give the illusion of doing this but, after they've got you all enthused, they give you a specific plan that makes them (not you) money... and... sends you (not them) off into activities which are often illegal and always stupid. I've said it before and I'll say it again. MULTI-LEVEL MARKETING SUCKS! Not just some of it, all of it. By the way, I heard in a speech by Dan Kennedy the average annual income of an Amway distributor is a whopping $32.00!

Enough of that. Simply said the kind of real inspiration PWM's are willing to purchase is provided by articulate experts who have become successes in their chosen endeavors and are willing to share their knowledge.

OK, what else will these successful, moneyed people purchase? Value. Just because these people have money doesn't mean they are promiscuous with it. They will spend it... but... not frivolously. Take automobiles for instance. You won't find most Players driving Fords, Chevy's, VW's, etc. On the other hand, I don't think many of them drive cars like Ferraries, Maseraties and Jaguars either. Those cars represent very poor value. They depreciate faster than a politician can make excuses, they are extremely uncomfortable, they have frequent and enormously expensive breakdowns and there is no place on any American highway where it is legal to drive them at the speeds they were intended to be driven. In other words, instead of value, what they actually are is high-priced toys usually bought by...

The Children Of
Players With Money!

My guess as to what most of the real Players buy are cars like Cadillacs (just voted care of the year), Buick Roadmasters, Mercedes and Lexus sedans. These are all automobiles that are safe, comfortable, luxurious and have a very high resale value. In other words, they represent an intelligent choice, not a stupid gesture.

What I'm trying to illustrate here is PWM's will spend... and spend big... but... they won't spend stupidly. Another thing to remember is, these people care about substance, not window dressing. When I sell my information, I don't "dress it up" much. My videos, for example, are raw. I don't concern myself with "production values," adding chintzy canned music to the sound track or clever graphics and cute special effects. What I do concern myself with is providing substance and, I hardly ever get a complaint about my materials.

What else will intelligent, hard-working people with money buy? Another big category is... services that save time! All truly wise people realize time is the most precious commodity they possess. And, it is this commodity they are least likely to squander. Do you realize many people who pay to have me write copy for them can do it almost as well as I can? So why hire me? Because it frees up their time to get on with the crucial job of running their business.

As a general rule, nobody with wisdom ever does anything business-related he can hire someone else who is honest and competent to do for him. Dumb people (losers) gloat about all the money they save by doing things themselves instead of paying someone else to do that same job. Smart people (winners) are always ready to cheerfully cough up fungolas to buy time. For example, I went to the last Rolling Stones concert in Miami. I sat center stage in the second row. My tickets (obtained from a ticket broker) cost me ten times as much as most of the people around me paid because... they were willing to stand in line up to 14 hours to get the seats they wanted. Poor me. I guess I blew around $8.00 per hour. What a sucker I am!

Players value time. If you want to market to them, consider a business providing meals (good meals) delivered to them. Consider a business that sends masseurs to their corporate offices to give executives and employees a tension-reducing shoulder rub. Consider a car wash business that does the job where the Player has his car parked when he is working. Organize an executive typing service where Players can dictate their correspondence into a phone and then have the letters delivered to them for their signature.

The possibilities are endless.

But, where do you find real Players? How do you get to them?

Obviously, Players are different than Non-Players. They drive different cars, live in different neighborhoods, eat in different restaurants, attend different functions, etc. One of the biggest differences is...

They Read!

Sure some Non-Players read also but, what they read is very different. Mostly Non-Players read self-help books written by dummies with Ph.D.'s (Piled Higher and Deeper) after their names, or publications that offer up a lot of gossip and "quick fixes" that are laughable to anyone with half a brain. Want to know what kind of publication is read by a higher percentage of Players than any other type? It's... newsletters! No, it's not just this one either. Many real Players read several newsletters every month. Why? Because newsletters, by their very nature, offer stripped-down, no-bullshit-info that can be grasped, digested and... implemented very quickly. Also, make a note of this: Real Players, who are by definition people with at least a modicum of wisdom, would rather pay $600 per year for 100 pages of real info than $9.95 for a book containing 300 pages of misinformation and fluff.

So, one way to find Players is on the subscription lists of newsletters. Also, Players often read financial publications such as the Wall Street Journal, Barron's, Investor's Business Daily, the International Herald Tribune and the Financial Times. Plus, they read books on selling and how to achieve excellence. Further, Players read biographies of successful men and women who have gamely overcome obstacles to succeed big in their chosen occupations.

Anyway, you can reach Players by advertising in such publications or renting mailing lists of people who buy them. You can also work with a good mailing list broker and have him ferret out for you lists primarily made up of high-income people. These might include Cadillac, Rolls Royce, Buick, Mercedes, Lexus and other expensive car owners. It might include lists of people who live in expensive homes or own power boats over 36 feet long or private, multi-engine aircraft. But, you know who the people are who are most likely to be at the very top of the Halbert Index? It's very simple...

They Are Business Owners!

Business owners represent about 6% of our population (there are about 15 million of them) and it is within this 6% where most of the PWM's reside. The others are mostly retired business owners. And... blessing of all blessings... all you need to locate them is... a phone book.

By the way, did you know that businesses that sell to other businesses are about 500% more likely to succeed than businesses that sell to consumers?

Look, I realize all of you can't simply drop everything you're doing and close down your bakery or flower shop and open up a "we deliver" car wash service. On the other hand, this issue should surely have given you much food for thought. Food that hopefully will have a positive influence on your future decisions.

That's it for now. Chow. I know, I know. It's supposed to be spelled "Ciao." Whatever.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.

	Many people keep asking when I'm going to have another seminar. Not for a long time. Probably, at least, not for another year. However, in May I will be teaching from the 11th to the 14th at another seminar (it's dirt-cheap compared to what I charge for mine!) being given by one of the sharpest marketing men I've ever met. If you decide to attend because you read about it here (see info enclosed) be sure to tell them so because... that will entitle you to a mystery gift (called "The Halbert Bonus") which the other attendees will not receive.


	Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Use Interesting Facts In Your Sales Messages To Sky Rocket Response!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zaza_interesting_facts.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I have a confession to make.

But, don't get too excited. It's not much of a "juicy" confession. Nothing about drugs, sex, rock 'n' roll or felonious misconduct.

Here it is: I've gotten into the habit of writing my December newsletter on December 31 and, I start writing it a short time before midnight. I did that again this year but, after only a few minutes, I stopped writing.

You see, earlier in the evening, I had visited with the father of my son's wife. His name is David Proval and he played the vicious "Richie" character on the hit T.V. series "The Sopranos." On the show, he was a very believable 'scary mob guy.' In person, he's quiet, soft-spoken and totally non-threatening. Obviously, he's a very, very good actor. After visiting with him, I went with my son and his wife to a party in Palos Verdes hosted by my friend, Dave Kekich. Dave has a new woman in his life and, I think they are going to get married.

Anyway, I left the party early so I could compose my December newsletter before midnight. I went back to La Reve (a great little, almost "secret" hotel in Los Angeles) and started on it when I realized I couldn't think of anything significant to write about. My thoughts flickered back over the events of the past year. I had "mind flashes" on stuff like the unbelievable and mostly insane presidential election... all the people I had known who were suffering mightily at the unmerciful hands of fate... the immense joy I had playing with my new granddaughter (Emma Rose) who is the most beautiful and happy baby I've ever seen. There were a lot of incidents of note in the year 2000 starting, of course, with the "non-event" of the Y2K crisis, the demise and bankruptcies of enumerable dot.com companies, etc. I found it astonishing that Time magazine selected George Bush as their "Person of the Year" since his singularly outstanding achievement was the successful theft of a presidential election.

Can you imagine such a man being elected "Person of the Year"... and... the scientific team who broke the genetic code (the most important achievement of the 20th century) was not even mentioned?

Thinking of all this made me feel more like sleeping than writing. So, that's what I did. That's why there was not, nor will ever be, a December 2000 issue of The Gary Halbert Letter.

But now, here it is January of a sparkling new year with all of the promise of pleasure, profits and pain of the coming twelve months that is laid out before us. Since it's my job to help you with the profit part of that equation, I thought I'd begin by giving you another lesson in copywriting. This lesson is designed to jump start your sluggish mind and multiply your income. Why didn't I write about this particular topic before? It's very simple, I forgot. Without further adieu, let us begin this lesson.

Here are 35 facts I bet you would have never known, if you weren't reading this issue of my newsletter.

Interesting Facts

1.      Rubber bands last longer when refrigerated.

2.      Peanuts are one of the ingredients of dynamite.

3.      There are 293 ways to make change for a dollar.

4.      The average person's left hand does 56% of the typing.

5.      A shark is the only fish that can blink with both eyes.

6.      There are more chickens than people in the world.

7.      Two-thirds of the world's eggplant is grown in New Jersey.

8.      The longest one-syllable word in the English language is "screeched."

9.      On a Canadian two dollar bill, the flag flying over the Parliament building is an American flag.

10.      All of the clocks in the movie "Pulp Fiction" are stuck on 4:20.

11.      No word in the English language rhymes with month, orange, silver, or purple.

12.      "Dreamt" is the only English word that ends in the letters "mt".

13.      All 50 States are listed across the top of the Lincoln Memorial on the back of the $5 bill.

14.      Almonds are a member of the peach family.

15.      Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance.

16.      Maine is the only State whose name is just one syllable.

17.      There are only four words in the English language which end in "dous": tremendous, horrendous, stupendous, and hazardous.

18.      The characters "Bert" and "Ernie" on Sesame Street were named after "Bert the cop" and       "Ernie the taxi driver" in Frank Capra's "It's a Wonderful Life."

19.      A cat has 32 muscles in each ear.

20.      An ostrich's eye is bigger than its brain.

21.      Tigers have striped skin, not just striped fur.

22.      In most advertisements, the time displayed on a watch is 10:10.

23.      Al Capone's business card said he was a used furniture dealer.

24.      Los Angeles' full name is "El Pueblo de Nuestra Senora la Reina de los Angeles de Porciuncula."

25.      A dragonfly has a life span of 24 hours.

26.      A goldfish has a memory span of three seconds.

27.      A dime has 118 ridges around the edge.

28.      It's impossible to sneeze with your eyes open.

29.      The giant squid has the largest eyes in the world.

30.      In England, the Speaker of the House is not allowed to speak.

31.      The microwave was invented after a researcher walked by a radar tube and a chocolate bar melted in his pocket.

32.      Mr. Rogers is an ordained minister.

33.      The average person falls asleep in seven minutes.

34.      There are 336 dimples on a regulation golf ball.

35.      "Stewardesses" is the longest word that is typed with only the left hand.

 

Well, all that was interesting, wasn't it? But so what? How can that help you make any money?

Let's take Interesting Fact #31, the one about the guy inventing the microwave oven after his candy bar melted when he walked by a radar tube. Obviously, that caused him to have an "aha" experience which led to the invention and sales of tens of millions of microwave ovens. Today, I read something in the news and it gave me an "aha" experience: A recent survey shows the number one reason people purchase a camcorder is the birth of a new child. It seems to me that nugget of information would open all sorts of possibilities for people who sell camcorders. First, they could get a mailing list of mothers-to-be or brand-new mothers who recently gave birth to their babies. They could solicit these specific mothers by direct mail with an enticing reason to buy a camcorder from them. 

Another possibility, is running headlines of this nature: "K-Mart Offers 50% Discount On Sony Camcorders To All Women Who Are More Than Seven Months Pregnant."

Or, perhaps, a certain camcorder could be "positioned" as a "baby cam" specifically designed to record the adventures and events which occur as your new child's life unfolds.

One thing I failed to emphasize when I wrote so many copywriting "lessons" recently is... how important it is to make your sales message interesting and thought-provoking.

Let's take another look at those 35 Interesting Facts and see if there is any way we can use them to start a sales letter or an ad that would capture a reader's interest... and... allow us to smoothly segue into our main selling message.

By the way, if you are not familiar with the word "segue" here is the dictionary definition, "to move smoothly and unhesitatingly from one state, condition, situation or element to another." For our purposes, a segue is simply a slick way of capturing someone's attention which makes it possible for us to make a logical and seamless transition to the really important message (why they should buy something from us).

Shall we begin with Interesting Fact #3? That's the one that says, "There are 293 ways to make change for a dollar." We could put up a big sign in a retail store and have a contest to see who would be the first of our prospects or customers to come up with all 293 ways listed on a piece of paper. The winner would get something valuable, like a big screen, high-definition television set. Then, the "losers" would all get a letter telling them they didn't win the contest (but telling them who did) and also informing them they have won a valuable second place prize. Perhaps that valuable second place prize could be a drastic reduction in the price of the television they were competing for, justified by all the time and effort they put into the contest. Perhaps the prize could be a waiver of any down payment necessary for them to purchase the T.V. Whatever.

Now let's talk about Interesting Fact #34, which is, "There are 336 dimples on a regulation golf ball." Suppose we started a sales letter like this:

 



Dear Friend,

Did you know there are 336 dimples on a regulation golf ball? And guess what? It is the material directly beneath each of those dimples that determines how far that golf ball will go when you hit it with a golf club. Even though all regulation golf balls have 336 dimples, the material immediately beneath of those dimples varies greatly from brand to brand.

Now, there is a brand new golf ball that has a tiny circle of material called "Zoomonian" beneath each dimple. Zoomonian has qualities found in no other material. The main quality that makes it so unique is... it retracts under pressure (like when it's hit by a golf club)... but then... it "unretracts" (snaps back to its regular size) faster than anything else known to man.

What does this mean to you as a golfer? Simply put, as soon as you hit one of these new golf balls... before it has even gone three inches... the Zoomonian will have already expanded back to its natural size. That instantaneous action will send that golf ball rocketing down the fairway as though it were propelled by 336 tiny jet engines. Of course this means you will have a significantly lower golf score the first time you use this "miracle" golf ball.

Etc., etc., etc.

 

 

Our next example, using Interesting Fact #21 ("Tigers have striped skin, not just striped fur") could begin  with a message like this:

 

Dear Friend,

Did you know tigers have striped skin and not just striped fur?

Isn't it unfortunate the same is not true of human beings?

What I mean is, wouldn't it be great if all crooks, thieves and scam artists had some type of tattoo on their foreheads which identified their true nature?

Unfortunately, the reality is, many of the most immoral and unethical people on this planet have gleaming-white, engaging smiles and honest-looking, open and charming faces. They are also dressed in expensive shirts, suits and shoes which disguise their street-thug nature. All of this outside appearance is to gain your confidence and to camouflage their true objective... which is... to pounce on you and bilk you out of your life savings.

There is a man just like that lurking in your life and, if I weren't writing this letter to you to tell you the truth about him, you would probably be bankrupt by this time next year.

Yadda, yadda, yadda.

 

 

 

Continuing on with Interesting Fact #20  which states, "An ostrich's eye is bigger than its brain," we might start our sales pitch with wording similar to that on the following page:

 

Dear Friend,

Did you know ostriches have eyes bigger than their brains?

Guess what else? So do 99% of people who invest in the stock market.

These people watch CNBC, read the "Wall Street Journal" and participate in computer chat rooms... and... every time their eyes process some type of    "too-good-to-be-true" information into their brains... they make incredibly bad decisions and lose a healthy chunk of their hard-earned money.

And they never learn.

Did you also know a goldfish only has an attention span of three seconds? [Sidepoint: This is Interesting Fact #26.] This also seems to be true of many stock market investors. What I mean is, they seem to have an inability to remember how often they have already been bilked by MLM scams, new IPO scams, 900# scams, and over-the-counter bulletin board companies that have no reporting requirements which can blithely make claims about the new technology they have developed which will give your Cadillac 100 miles to the gallon.

A goldfish is a very poor learner. After all, if he forgets everything he's been taught in just three seconds, how could he be expected to master a simple fact that every time he eats one of those green and purple-striped worms, he will get sick to his stomach? He'll just eat the worm, get sick, forget about it in three seconds, eat another of the worms, get sick again, forget about it again, and continue the process adinfinitum. So what? How does any of this apply to you?

Well, if you're active in the stock market, you are surely aware that 85% of all dot.com companies have lost 70 to 95% of their value in the last nine months. You know what the people who lost their money in those companies are going to do? They are going to forget (just like a goldfish) the consequences of an under-analyzed opportunity... and... they are again going to jump on another looney-tunes bandwagon... and... again lose a healthy chunk of their hard-earned money.

Here are seven ways to make sure that doesn't happen to you:

1.  Blah, blah, blah.

 

 

 

Finally, how about Interesting Fact #27? You know, the one about a dime having 118 ridges on its outside. We could open with something like the example on page 7:

 

Dear Friend,

As you can see, I have scotch-taped a dime to the top of this letter.

I want you to remove that dime from this letter and run your fingers around the edge of it. Can you feel all those tiny, little indentations? Not many people know it but, every dime manufactured by the U.S. Mint has exactly 118 of these ridges.

Well, I bet right now you're thinking, "So what? That's kind of interesting but, what's it got to do with me?"

My friend, the fact that every dime manufactured in America has exactly 118 ridges... and... so few people know about it, has led to a fascinating situation from which you can profit to the tune of more than $15,000 per month!

Here's why: Yackety, yackety, yackety.

 

Okay, let's stop and take a breather. That last example may seem a bit far fetched but, it is by taking the handcuffs off your creativity that allows you to come up with far fetched, insane, "crazy" ideas. And, many of these ideas will spark other ideas that are actually practical and doable in the real world. Can you write a stimulating sales message built around the fact that two-thirds of all the world's eggplant is grown in New Jersey? [Interesting Fact #7.]

Or a captivating ad about a dragonfly who only has a life span of 24 hours? [Interesting Fact #25.] Or that a cat has 32 muscles in each ear? [Interesting Fact #19.] Or that Winston Churchill was born in a ladies' room during a dance? [Interesting Fact #15.] Or that a giant squid has the largest eyes in the world? [Interesting  Fact #29.]

Remember how I told you earlier in this newsletter a survey revealed the birth of a child is the number one reason for camcorder purchases? That's an interesting fact, isn't it? And the way to incorporate that particular "interesting fact" in a sales message is a little more obvious than using the other "interesting fact" instances I've given you in this newsletter. Just beware... even if you are a skillful writer and are using the more obvious "interesting facts" that does not mean... your sales message will be more effective than... using those less-than-obvious "interesting facts" to seduce people to read your sales message.

Here's three more interesting facts I just learned this morning:

(1)   Did you know online sales increased by 54% this holiday season... despite the failure of 85% of dot.com companies? It's true. Last year during the holiday season, U.S. consumers spent 7 billion dollars purchasing goods and gifts online. This year, holiday online purchases were 10.8 billion dollars.

         By the way, the average purchase of those online consumers was $304 worth of merchandise.

         And, all of the online retailers who enjoyed profitable holiday sales had the same thing in common. I could tell you what it was but, I'm not going to. If this information would be of interest to you, it would be a useful and instructional exercise for you to do the research and find out the answer for yourself.

(2)   Did you know cops have a database for laundry tags? That's because sometimes, when they discover a dead person with no identification, the laundry mark will help them identify the body.

(3)   Did you know a product called "Dermaplec" is an over-the-counter cosmetic that is the best product available for hiding bruises? Therefore, every patrolman called out to investigate a case of domestic abuse quickly learns to check the couple's medicine cabinet for Dermaplec. If this product is in the medicine cabinet, it's almost as good as a confession by the husband that he beats his wife on a regular basis.

That's it for this month. You know, I believe the most important job a teacher has is to electrify the minds of his students. Sure, you've got to give them facts, methodologies and techniques... but... if you can raise the level of their own curiosity and show them "tricks" to jump start their thinking processes, I believe you are doing something extremely priceless. That is what I have tried to do here... to stimulate your minds to elevate your own creativeness.

Unfortunately, many of my readers are so dim-witted and mentally-retarded, I don't really have a chance of getting through to them.

So why do I bother? I'm not sure. Maybe it's because I'm pretty much a dumb ass myself.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

P.S.   My friend Dan Kennedy has a killer seminar coming up in the near future. If you are lucky enough to get an invitation to attend, I have one single piece of advice for you:

Do It!

         Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Little

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zazs_automatic_telephone_calls.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

OK, dammit, I AM going to put on the free "Patches of Light" seminar!

It's going to be on the 19th, 20th and 21st of April. That's a Friday, Saturday and Sunday. It's going to be in Orlando, Florida... so... if you get bored with me, you can visit Mickey, Minnie, Goofy and their pals.

I'll write more about my "Patches of Light" seminar at the end of this letter. But now, I want to talk about Voice Broadcasts (sometimes known as "phone blasts") and how they might help you make a lot of extra fungolas.

First, telemarketing has been around for a long time and it has a deservedly bad reputation. Ask 100 people what they think about telemarketers and those 100 people will say...

"Telemarketers Suck!"

But, methinks that's not exactly the case with this new voice broadcast technology. Here's one example of how this modern technology can be used. You start with a list of people who have a common interest in something. Of course, you have to have the telephone numbers of all these people.

Perhaps this is your own in-house list of your personal, existing customers. If not, you should know there are hundreds of mailing lists you can rent in which you not only get the names and addresses... but also... the telephone numbers of all the people on that list.

Now listen up: The selection of the list you are going to use is... by far... the most important decision you are going to make in this entire equation. It doesn't matter how well you do everything else... if... you are working with a tired, exhausted list of people who have no interest in what you are selling. In fact, when it comes to marketing, the most important element is always...

How Well You Target
Your Prospects!

Blue collar, beer-guzzling, pick-up-truck-driving-dumb-asses... ain't... gonna buy your high-priced golf clubs... no matter... how good your sales pitch is.

OK, let's say you're gonna start with your own list. Let's say you've got 100,000 people on your list and, it's been awhile since you have contacted them. You write a great sales letter and send it to the list. Your mailing is profitable. It pulls in x%.

Let's see if we can sweeten the pot just a bit? On the day after you drop your mail, you record a message something like this:

    "Hi, this is John Q. Everett calling. I just wanted to tell you I mailed you a very important letter yesterday. It's coming in a yellow envelope and it has a sample of the kind of bills they are using for money now in Afghanistan. There's a very interesting story in the letter about this. And, if you hate the Taliban terrorists as much as I do, you will really enjoy reading this letter. So watch for it. Remember, it was mailed yesterday by first-class mail and it's coming in a yellow envelope. Thanks for hearing me out."


    OK, Sweetcheeks, remember how you got x% response when you mailed   that letter all by itself with no telephone call? Guess what kind of response you are going to get when you "enhance" your mailing with     the kind of 30-second telephone message you just read? Well, instead    of x response... you are going to get...

3 Times x Response!

That's right, Bubba. By using the method I just told you about, you are going to increase the pull of all your mailings by approximately 300%!

Here's a couple of important things:

Important Thing #1:

	These calls are all made during the day. Not at night as I thought (and told you) a couple months ago.
Important Thing #2:

 

	These calls will terminate automatically if a live person answers. The message will only be left on an answering machine or voicemail.

       Actually, you can have the message delivered if a live person answers... but... that's not the way I would do it.

Let's explore a different scenario: Let's say you are mailing to an outside rented list. One that is not made up of your own customers. Here's how I would change the message:

  "Hi, this is John Q. Everett calling. You don't know me but, I mailed you a very important letter yesterday. It's coming in a yellow envelope and it has a sample of the kind of bills they are using for money now in Afghanistan. There's a very interesting story in the letter about this. And, if you hate the Taliban terrorists as much as I do, you will really enjoy reading this letter. So watch for it. Remember, it was mailed yesterday by first-class mail and it's coming in a yellow envelope. Thanks for hearing me out."

Not much of a change was it? The only extra words I added were: "You don't know me but..."

You know why these are the only words I added? Because... those are the only words that needed to be added.

Let's mush on.

Another scenario: This time we're not even going to make a mailing. We're gonna do it all with telephone calls! We've rented a mailing list of avid golfers. We've got their names, addresses and telephone numbers. Now you send out a telephone blast something like this:

  "Hi, my name is John Q. Everett. You don't know me but, I understand you are an avid golfer just like me. Well, guess what? I just learned two simple tricks from a one-legged man... who... in spite of his obvious physical challenge, plays scratch golf. What he taught me was how to immediately add 30 to 60 yards on all my tee shots... plus... he showed me a way to improve my putting accuracy by 550%. If you'd like to know more about what he taught me, hit zero on your telephone right now and you will hear a 4-minute recorded message that tells you all about this. If you are not interested, please accept my apology for taking your time."

 

This message will only be delivered to live people (it will terminate if the call is picked up by an answering machine or voicemail). When you reach a live person and if he does hit zero, he will hear a 4-minute sales message about the golfing secrets you have discovered and, how by giving you some fungolas, he can get the secrets and the equipment necessary for him to achieve a dramatic improvement in his golf score.

Here's a neat thing about this: After the guy listens to your 4-minute recorded pitch (and, it can be shorter or longer than 4-minutes) he can press another key on his telephone keypad which will connect him to a live order taker. Actually, he can do this when the message is over... or... anytime during the message... even before it's finished.

Or, he can press another key to leave you a message.

Or, he can press another key which will get him a fax-on-demand.

And listen, that last message could be slightly altered so it would work with an answering machine and voicemail. I'm not going to tell you how to alter that script to do this... because... if you can't figure it out for yourself... you are so pig-shit stupid, you should be working at McDonald's.

Actually, there are so many other ways you can use this technology, it makes me dizzy. But, don't you ever forget this: No matter how dazzling the technology that makes this all work...

It Is The Quality Of The List You
Are Using And The Quality Of Your
Message That Really Determines Whether
Your Marketing Campaign Works... Or... Fails!

Here is a somewhat edited version of the information one company who offers this technology faxed to me:

The Ultimate Marketing System
Here's how the latest technology will completely automate all your Lead
Generation, Follow up and Customer Interaction:




Voice Broadcast
Create a steady flow of new clients or referrals by recording  a
30-60 second "teaser" voice message about your product or services.
Then send it outbound automatically to hundreds of thousands of your prospects' or clients' answering machines or voicemail. In your message, invite them to call your private toll-free phone number to hear a 24-hour FREE recorded message for more information.




Automatic Marketing Hotline
When your prospect or client calls your toll-free hotline, they will
hear your pre-recorded message giving them more detailed
information and any special offers you may have. After listening, they will
have the option of pressing "0" to speak with you directly, or pressing "2" to
leave you a message, or pressing "8" to receive a fax-on-demand.
Every caller's phone number is captured!




 Auto-Voice Responder
Whether your client or prospect hangs up during your
recording or leaves a message on your Automatic Hotline, the Auto-
Voice Responder will immediately dial back your captured phone number
and play the proper customized response you've recorded. This gives you a
second opportunity to present a new or different offer. After listening,
they have the option of pressing "0" to speak with you directly, or
pressing "2" to leave you a message, or pressing "8"
to receive a fax-on-demand.

 

What you have just read is not my words. It is the words of one of the companies who sell this technology. Here are some of the other things they have to say in their literature:

'	"Our Customer Support team will lead you... even drag you... toward the success you've always dreamed of."


(	"We'll initially help you write 2 turn-key campaigns for both Voice Broadcast and your Automatic Hotline. We'll even record the scripts for you, so you can start generating business immediately."


'	"You don't have to be a rocket scientist to implement it."


(	"A turn-key, practical, low maintenance, inexpensive Business Generating system which offers MAXIMUM rewards for MINIMUM effort." (Hmn? Wonder where they got the idea for that phraseology?)


'	"This information is delivered pressure-free with a warm, friendly non-salesy educational approach."



A thought before I go on: You know the message for the golf

deal? Well, given my druthers, that message would be delivered by a golf celebrity. Like Tiger Woods if I could get him.

Anyhoo, there's much more to know about this "phone blast" stuff than I can put in this letter. Plus, I probably got some of it wrong. Like before when I wrote these calls are made at night... only to find out, they are really made during the day.

But, I'm pretty sure I've got the gist of it right. And certainly, I've told you enough for you to know if you are interested or not.

Personally, I think this could turn out to be a very sweet deal. Here's how you can find out all the facts about this exciting new technology. Just contact:

Jeff Troyer
Automatic Response Technologies
154 Avenue Victoria
San Clemente, CA  92672
Phone: 800/854-8765
Fax: 949/498-2591
E-Mail:  Jeff@AutomaticResponse.com
Website: www.automaticresponse.com

Sorry I don't have his cell phone number, his beeper number, the serial number of his palm pilot, his driver's license number, his social security number, his home address, the name and description of his mistress (maybe he doesn't even have one), his bank account number, his credit card number and so forth.

See, I don't know this guy all that well so, you'll just have to make do with the meager contact information I've given you.

On to other stuff. In my December issue, I offered free telephone consultations to anyone who wanted one. I've been giving those free consultations until I'm blue in the face and, according to the feedback I've been getting, my advice has helped a lot of people immensely.

But, I haven't been able to reach everybody. I have called some people half a dozen times before I gave up. A few idiots left me their beeper numbers instead of their telephone numbers.

Get real!

Anyway, I am now shredding all the remaining requests I have for free consultations. If you still really want a free consultation, I'll try to accommodate you. But, you have to call and make another request and leave one or more numbers where you are easily accessible... because...

I Won't Make Myself Crazy
Calling You Over And Over!

Let's talk about mail delivery in this so-called "Age-of-Anthrax." Here is the text of a written message from Alice of Specialized Mailing. (They're great people and their telephone number is 1-888-444-2284):

"I, Alice Mishica, PERSONALLY delivered all of Gary Halbert's domestic,
Canadian, and international newsletters, all weighing exactly 1 oz., to the Santa
Ana General Mail Facility at 11:15 am on Saturday, November 10th.

"It takes a woman!"

Alrighty then. I asked my subscribers to fill out a "Valued Subscriber Contact Form" which (among other things) asked them to tell me when they received my December newsletter. Out of 100% of the replies I received within the first 30-days, here's how it broke down:

41% received my newsletter 3-days after it was mailed.

15% received my newsletter 4-days after it was mailed.

14% received my newsletter 5-days after it was mailed.

14% received my newsletter 6-days after it was mailed.

5% received my newsletter 7-days after it was mailed.

6% received my newsletter 8-days after it was mailed.

1% received my newsletter 9-days after it was mailed.

1% received my newsletter 10-days after it was mailed.

3% received my newsletter 11-days after it was mailed.


Know what I think? I think, in this "Age-of-Anthrax"...

Direct Mail Is Still The
"Jackpot" Way To Produce Fungolas!

For one thing, as far as competition goes, it has thinned out the weak (cowardly) members of the herd.

Now, let's go all the way back to the beginning of this letter. Remember I said, "OK, dammit, I AM going to put on a free 'Patches of Light' seminar!"? Well, that seminar is, in fact, going to be free. And like I said, it's going to be on Friday, Saturday and Sunday the 19th, 20th and 21st of April. And like I said, it's going to be in Orlando, Florida. And like I said, this is where Mickey, Minnie, Goofy and their pals live... so... you might want to bring Mama and let her take the kids to see Mickey and Friends. But one thing I didn't tell you is...

You Can Bring ALL The Guests You Want!

There is going to be something very special about this seminar which is going to make it extremely valuable! (You'll have to show up to find out.)

Is anybody NOT welcome? Yep. I do NOT want a single negative person to attend. I do NOT want a single "sour-minded" person to attend. Do you have some ill feelings toward me? Are you pissed at me for some reason? If so...

Do NOT Come!

It's free, but you do have to do one thing to make sure you can     get in. You have to let us know you are coming and how many people    you are bringing to the seminar with you... plus... you have to let us know immediately! You can either:

1.	Leave a message on our voicemail at 305/534-7577 and give us
ALL this information; or


2.	You can fax ALL this info to us at 352/861-1665; or


3.	You can write us (if you do it right now!) by using the address on the first page of this newsletter.


	(It's up at the top of the letterhead, you dummy.)

 

See, we've got to know immediately how many people are coming so we can determine which hotel we should use... and... what size seminar room we should rent.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
PR Man For "Dialing-For-Dollars"


 

P.S.

	Hey Man, I really write a bitch of a newsletter, don't I?  (Compare it, for example, to that "package-of-shit" Joe Polish sends out every month!)

Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Why The Best Way To Promote A Website Is Not The Internet!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zhlk_promote_website.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

No time for chit chat. Let's get right down to business.

Later this month, a few days after you receive this newsletter, the following ad is going to appear in Investor's Business Daily.

    Here Are 3 Very Low- Priced Stocks You Must Know About Before Midnight On Tuesday,
June 30, 1998!
All of these companies have made new and amazing bio-med-ical, technological breakthroughs. All are listed on the NASDAQ. Here are their ticker symbols:
(1) CORX   (possible   Alz- heimer's breakthrough!)
(2) ENDO (prostate disease relief and minimally invasive surgi-cal technology which literally freezes cancerous tumors!)
(3) SLIC (most efficient laser ever developed which can be used at operating room temperatures! Potential for automotive, dental, medical, telecommunications, optical data storage, DVD printing and military operations)
For exciting, free info go to ... www.GHLstockalert.com

Now, as you notice, the people who read that ad will be directed to go to a website, namely www.GHLstockalert.com. Here is what they are going to read when they get to that website:

Welcome to...

GHL STOCK ALERT!

My name is Gary C. Halbert and I am about to reveal the details to you of three low-priced stocks I believe have a tremendous upside potential. I, myself, have purchased shares in each of these companies.

However, that does not mean you should invest in these stocks. Just because I believe the price of a certain stock is going to go up, doesn't mean it is a dead certainty which will turn out to be true. There are always factors in the near and distant future which are virtually unknowable before they manifest themselves. Therefore, you should never invest any money in the stock market if the loss of that money would cause you undue discomfort or inconvenience. If you invest in any of these stocks, you could lose part or all of your investment.

But, you could also make a bundle!

I'll reveal the names and details of my three stock picks for this month just a few paragraphs from now. But first, it will be useful if you understand a little about why I have chosen to invest in these particular three stocks.

First, I have a rule for myself and, that rule is...


Buy Only Stocks Listed
On One Of The Three Major
Stock Exchanges!

The reason for that rule? Simple: You see, I realize I'm never going to make any money by buying stocks. I'm only going to make money when I sell my stocks. And, when I'm ready to sell, I want to make damn sure whomever wants to buy can easily find quotes and other details of the stocks I want to sell. In other words, I have no interest (at least currently) in messing around with any stocks... unless... they are listed in the Wall Street Journal,Barron's or Investor's Business Daily.

Believe it or not, that rule alone eliminates hundreds of thousands of stocks. Here in America, aside from the three major exchanges, you can buy OTC (Over-The-Counter) stocks, "pink sheet" stocks (ask your broker if you're interested) and stocks from all sorts of other sources. You can also buy stocks listed on the Toronto Exchange and all the European and Asian exchanges.

Not me. I buy nothing that's not listed on the NYSE, AMEX or NASDAQ.

My second rule is...

    Only Buy Stocks That
Have The Potential To Gain
50% Or More In One Day!

I've done a lot of research because I wanted to know what made this small, elite group of stocks (there are 300 to 500 of them every year) different from all the thousands of other stocks which have never enjoyed this type of spectacular daily gain. Here's what my preliminary research seems to indicate: Of all stocks which gained 50% or more in one day of trading...

     Only 6.2% Were
     Stocks Listed On
 The AMEX Exchange!

No AMEX stocks for me. At least, I don't spend any time researching them right now. Mushing on, I also discovered...

Only 4.9% Of The
   Top Daily Gainers Came From
The NYSE!

So, at least currently, I don't research NYSE stocks either... because... the plain fact of the matter is...

88.9% Of All The
    Big Daily Gainers
    Come From The NASDAQ!

Now, let's talk about price. Of all NASDAQ stocks that gained 50% or more in price in one day...

Stocks priced at $1.99 or less represented 44% of the big daily gainers.






Stocks priced from $2.00 to $2.99 represented 25.8% of the big daily gainers.






Stocks priced from $3.00 to $3.99 made up 12.6% of the big daily gainers.






Stocks priced from $4.00 to $4.99 made up 3.5% of the big daily gainers and...



All Stocks Priced
     $5.00 Or More Represent Only
  13.9% Of The Big
Daily Gainers!

So, here's what I've decided so far: I'm (at least for now) only going to concentrate on stocks on the NASDAQ which are selling for less than $5.00. This selection criteria alone has eliminated me having to examine 99.9% of all stock market investment opportunities.

But, my friend, we ain't done yet. Not by a long shot. Just because a stock is selling for less than $5.00 and listed on the NASDAQ doesn't mean it makes the cut. Nope, all we've identified here is the "preliminary pool" of stocks we are even willing to look at. There are numerous other hurdles even these stocks have to overcome before they qualify as a "pick."

The first of the next hurdles is volume. If a stock has a very thin daily volume, just the fact you invest in that stock will make it skyrocket in price.

Conversely, if the daily volume is too high, way too much of a mountain of money has to be moved to effectuate a 50% or more jump in price.

If you are at all active in the stock market, you are already aware of the success of a small group of stock market experts (they really are) who have an informative website and write books on a how a "Motley Fool" should invest in stocks. I recommend their material since it's very informative. Here's an eight item checklist they use to select stocks worthy of further examination:

1.	

 Sales of 200 million... or less!'


2.	

Daily dollar volume of trading three million dollars... or less!


3.	Low share price between $5.00 to $20.00. They maintain stocks priced at less than $5.00 are "junk." I disagree.
4.	Net profit margin of 10% or more.
5.	Relative Strength (study Investor's Business Daily to learn what this means) of 90 or higher.
6.	Earnings or sales growth must be 25% or greater this year than it was for the same quarter last year.
7.	Insider holdings must be at least 15%.
8.	Cash-flow from operations must be a positive number.

   

All in all, this is a good checklist. My criteria are a bit different but, not too much. However, there's something I consider much more important than all of this put together. Namely:

I Want The Companies I
      Invest In To Be "Newsworthy"!

As I wrote in last month's issue of my newsletter it is... NOT... some good or bad development which makes a stock price go up or down? As I said, "It is the NEWS of some development, not the development itself, that affects stock prices?"

You know what is so great about many of those smaller, low-priced publicly-traded companies? Not only does a low-priced stock have more "growing room," many of them remain unexamined by the big institutional investors who are insurance companies, pension funds and mutual funds. They can't afford to mess with those "little" stocks. First of all, there are more mutual funds than stocks (I find that rather amazing) and often, one day's trading in a given mutual fund is more than ten times the entire value of a small or micro cap company. Many of those small companies have spectacular "news" relatively no one knows about. Like a company called Longport which has a portable skin scanner a doctor can use to detect skin cancer in seconds... before it is visible... and without a biopsy.

By the way, I have not invested in Longport because it is not traded on any of the three major exchanges. But, if it was, I would invest in it... because... not only do the stocks I invest in have to get through my price parameters, volume parameters and all the other hurdles...

They Must Also Have
    A Terrific And Mostly
  Untold Story!

Plus, these have to be stories... that... I have reason to believe the mainstream investment publications are about to "discover."

OK, now that you know all that, here are the stocks I've invested in this month:

STOCK #1:

Company	Ticker 	Exchange
Cortex Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
        (An Alzheimer's Breakthrough?)	CORX	NASDAQ

This is a neuroscience company focused on novel drug therapies for neurological and psychiatric disorders. Recently, a patent application has been filed entitled "Facilitation of AMPA Synoptic Transmission in Brain as a Treatment for Schizophrenia."

One of the three inventors is Gary Rogers, Ph.D. who is the Vice President of Pharmaceutical Discovery at Cortex.

AMPALEX(R)(CX516) is the first compound in the AMPAKINE class to be administered to humans. The drug is currently the subject of three Phase I/IIa clinical trials. Anyway, here's what I, Sir Gary of Halbert, find especially exciting...

AMPAKINES Are Also Being
     Investigated For Potential Utility
     In The Treatment Of Alzheimer's!

In fact, there is currently in progress a Phase I/IIa clinical trial at the NIH for that indication! And, according to numerous scientific papers AMPAKINES can increase performance on memory tests in humans and animals. Plus, these memory enhancing effects can be measured... within minutes... of administration.

I don't know about all this. I'm not a scientist. However, this company seems to be dead serious about their research... and... if their research pays off, I think there's gonna be a world-wide news flash that will skyrocket the price of the stock.

Maybe it'll happen; maybe not. All I can tell you is, after a lot of research, I'm convinced their stock is a good bet.

We'll see.


STOCK #2:

Company	Ticker	Exchange
Endocare, Inc.
     (Prostate Disease Relief!)	ENDO	NASDAQ

This company develops, manufactures and markets innovative, minimally invasive surgical technologies which literally freeze cancerous tumors. It was recently revealed how this revolutionary temperature-based technology is being applied to treat prostate cancer, the second most common cancer in all men, and cancer of the liver. Recent study results from Douglas Chinn, M.D. of Southern California's Alahambra Hospital revealed...

 
96% Of His Patients Who
Have Received This Monitored
Temperature-Based Treatment
For Prostate Cancer Over The Past
    Three Years... REMAIN CANCER FREE!

They're doing a lot of other incredible stuff but, this is the part that made me decide to buy their stock. Do you know how many men get prostate cancer as they age? It's up to 80%! Do you know how many "Baby Boomers" are turning 50 every day now?

Do you realize... aw hell... it's your money. Do what you think is best. Don't follow my lead (I'm a "controlled" risk-taker) if doing so will take you out of your own personal "comfort zone."

How's that song go? "We may lose or we may win... but... we'll never be here again..." 

STOCK #3:

Company	Ticker	Exchange
Semiconductor Laser International Corp.
      (A New Cutting-Edge Laser!)	SLIC	NASDAQ

CEO and President Dr. Geoffrey T. Burnham has been quoted as saying, "I believe we are on the verge of a sales-breakthrough which will lead to the placement of a number of very large production orders. We expect these orders will be received from some of the world's largest corporations looking to employ our unique technology in their product lines."

It's no wonder. At the 11th Annual Diode Laser Technology Review Conference (that sounds like a fun group, doesn't it?) held in Albuquerque, New Mexico, Semiconductor Laser International presented a poster paper showing overall conversion efficiency of 56% for an 808 nm high power semiconductor diode laser operating at 25 degrees Celsius, which represents... the highest efficiency ever obtained by anyone at these operating temperatures.

This is space-age technology with potential uses for automotive, dental, medical, telecommunications, optical, data storage, DVD Printing, and military applications. In fact...



This Company Has Reached
This Level Of Laser Efficiency In
Less Than One Year... Which...
Their Competitors With A Combined Total
Of 24 Years Of Research
Have Still Not Achieved!
Whatever. Once again, it's your call.

OK, that's it for now... except... for some legal stuff you ought to know. First, I am NOT a Registered Investment Advisor. I do not give individual investment advice. None of the info you've just read is an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any security. I believe the sources from which I got all this info are reliable... but... I can't guarantee that to be true. Even though some of this info came from the companies themselves, I have no personal or business connections to these companies whatsoever.

One other thing: I've been publishing a very elite newsletter continuously for the last twelve years cleverly called The Gary Halbert Letter. You might be interested in my newsletter but, probably not. First of all, with a subscription price of nearly $3,000 some people say it's the most expensive monthly publication in history. Secondly, I do not make info about my newsletter available via the Internet. If you want to know what it's all about, why it's so valuable and why it's read in over 50 countries, you'll have to call my office and give us your name, your real address and phone number. Then, after we are convinced you are a real honest-to-God human being who doesn't have to hide behind a computer, we'll send you a few sample issues and you can decide for yourself whether or not it's for you. Also, we don't use an 800# so you'll have to pay for the call yourself. If, after knowing all this, you are still interested, you can call us at (305) 534-7577 anytime, 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week.

Please note this website is all text. No bells and whistles. No graphics. No photos. I hate all that crap. All it does is slow me down when I'm doing research. I hope you feel the same way. If you want great graphics, go to Disney. If you want great info, come to me.

By the way, the info on the three stocks will be removed from this website at midnight on Tuesday, June 30, 1998.

Hang in there. Just remember...


Things Always Look
Darkest Just Before They
Go Totally Black!

 

                  Sincerely,

 

                  Gary C. Halbert

 

Now, of course, you're probably wondering if Guru Gary, the veritable "Prince-of-Print" will actually have the savvy to get that site up and running in the next couple of weeks. Well, guess what, you pessimistic, little prick: It's already up and running and, if you have a computer, you can check it out right now. The address is:

www.GHLstockalert.com

OK, now pay attention: If you're gonna be able to get away with referring to your readers as "pessimistic, little pricks" you damn well better have something of extreme value to lay upon them... else... the humorless twits amongst them will rise up and smite thee... and... I sure wouldn't want that to happen! (By the way, just for the record, I want you to know I realize some of you are pessimistic, BIG pricks.)

Hmn? I sense I may be stepping over the line into a "danger zone" here so, I think I better get to the good stuff zippidy quick. Here's the scoopola: You already know what's on the website. That means you've got maybe a week's head start before most of the rest of the world even knows of the existence of the site.

Not only that, at one minute after midnight on Tuesday, June 30, 1998 new content about one or more Nasdaq stocks will be uploaded to that site. However, if you are a Lifetime Subscriber or a paid-up current subscriber, you're going to receive the next issue of this newsletter about a week before I upload the new info... and... that issue will reveal unto you what's gonna be on the website.

By the way, do you realize Endocare, Inc. (Nasdaq: ENDO) has found a way to cure 97% of patients with prostate cancer and the news of that achievement has not yet caught the attention of the national media? You know, many of my readers are more savvy about PR than me... and... I hope, for humanity's sake, someone (I'd love it to be one of my readers) makes sure this achievement gets the attention it deserves.

It's not all just about money: Dozens (perhaps hundreds) of people with prostate cancer are going to needlessly die today because the media has neglected this breakthrough.

Come to think of it, maybe things are as they should be. After all, I for one, am very comforted that, because of Viagra, Bill and Monica will never have to worry about his ability to perform.

Please forgive me. Forget all that stuff I said about a cure for prostate cancer. I lost my head for a moment. Willie knows what's important and what's not. My apologies to the White House.

                 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

 

P.S.	

I'm very proud of my son Kevin Clifford Halbert. A few years ago, he graduated from the toughest college on earth (they have the highest per capita stress-induced suicide rate among their student population than any other college) and he has now become the man to know if you need the best work possible in digital imaging. He's so good, when Sinbad (the comedian and talk show host) was doing his last special in Aruba, he paid Kevvy Baby to go with him just as "insurance" in case anything technical started to go wrong. He also does great fashion photography and you can see his work at www.pixelpipeline.com.

And, he's the genius who got his ol' man's website up and running without a hitch and in jiffy quick time. He's also my "insurance" that nothing goes wrong with my website (a lot can go wrong with a website) and, I highly recommend, if you are thinking about starting a website, going online, or doing anything digitally related, you hire him at least as a consultant. He's the cheapest insurance you can buy. Just ask me or Sinbad. Kevin's number is (213) 851-8275.

I love you son.



P.P.S	It might be to your benefit to spread the word about my website. Think about it.



Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Get A Product To Sell If You Don't Have One Already ... And... How To Get It For Nothing!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/askj_product_to_sell.htm

From:
W-a-y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend and Subscriber,

  Sometimes (in fact, often) in the press and crush of business, I forget my manners. There's no excuse for the delay but, herewith, I would like to offer public and belated thanks to: Gary Bencivenga for sending me a copy of Obvious Adams, Lee Rogers for the Thomas Hall report on Writing A Sales Letter, Dan Kennedy for the tapes on public speaking, G. Lee Roberts for a couple of the actual "Little Blue Books," and Frank Cawood for a magnificent bronze eagle.

     Not to mention the legions of people who've written me nice letters.

     Bless you all.

     Also, before I get going this month, I'd like to answer a question here in print I am often asked by phone or letter. The question is: "Do you ever do any public speaking and what do you charge?" The answer is yes. I do quite a bit of public speaking and I do not charge a fee. What I do is, I ask the sponsoring organization to pay my expenses (airfare and hotel) and to write a check, no matter how small, to the Children's Hospital of Los Angeles. I also ask that arrangements be made for my talk to be recorded and I want it understood I own the rights to the recorded material.

     All in all, I'm a rather cheap date.

     Now, let's down to business. Most of you who read this newsletter already know a great deal about selling via direct response. Now, let us suppose a newcomer comes to you and wants to know the single most important thing he could ever learn about this noble field of endeavor.

     What would you tell that person? What, in your opinion, is the very most important consideration of all when it comes to selling via direct response? Or, for that matter, any form of selling? What should be the "cornerstone concept" of all of our efforts? What is the one thing we can do that will dramatically energize all our efforts, keep us perpetually enthused, insure our unflagging interest, help us overcome all obstacles and objections and keep us smiling, bright-eyed and bushy-tailed all the time?

     Is there a single principle that's that critical? A stand alone consideration which is truly supreme above all others? You bet there is. And, I can communicate it to you in just four words:

Sell Something You Love!

     Listen up: I get calls all the time from people asking for marketing help. I like getting those calls. I like helping people. I like showing off how smart I am. And I love all the cards and letters I get from people who've used my advice with enormous success. Like this one which just came in which says in part:

     "I took your first $1.00 letter, changed it around to the copy enclosed, and mailed it out to about 600 of my 'best' clients. The only difference is that I sent a $2.00 bill instead of a one. Those 600 letters took in a little over 100 grand."

     Think about it: One hundred thousand dollars from only 600 letters!

     Now, the man who wrote that letter has a lot going for him. He's smart, he listens to other smart people (like me), he tests, he's willing to experiment, he's got a lot of marketing savvy... but... most of all...

He Love His Products!

     His name is Fred Rowe. He sells quality gemstones and because of his genuine enthusiasm for his wares, he maintains a non-stop effervescence that transmits itself to all his customers.

     And so, because of all this, and because it fits into the context of what I'm trying to teach you this month, I've decided to give him a free plug which he really doesn't need. Therefore, if you are in the market for a diamond, a ruby, a red spinel (my favorite) or any other type of gemstone, I recommend you give him a call at (502) 338-2363.

     But, of course, not everyone who asks me for help gets the same response. Sadly, quite a few of my calls are from people who are trying to sell something that sucks. A case in point: Recently, I got a call from a guy who's having trouble selling his little report on making extra money.

     "Does it work?" I ask. "Do the people who buy your report get a good deal? Does it really help them make a lot of extra money?"

     "Not really," says the caller. "It's basically just a bunch of hot air; just something I threw together because I know there's a market for this work-at-home stuff."

     Well, at this point, I lost interest. Why should I care about this nickel-dime scammer and his dreary little report?

     How pathetic.

     Now, if you are ever going to listen to me about anything, please, please listen to this:

No One Can Ever Be A
Success Who Sells Something
Of Which He Is Not Proud!

     Oh yeah, I know you know there are plenty of people who make plenty of money selling crap. So what? Money is only one (and truly not the most important) of all the ingredients that make someone a success. And... making money (even millions) while losing your self-respect leads to a dry rot of the psyche and a constant patina of despair that dulls the fabric of your life.

     What's that? You say I've babbled on enough about this? That you didn't subscribe to this letter for a lecture on integrity? You say you want me to get on with it and say something practical?

     Alright. Alright. How about this? How about if I teach you how to create a damn-near perfect product? Something you can sell for 20 times or more what you pay for it and still be giving full value? Something that's going to be so useful and so worthwhile your head will swell with pride and your wallet will swell with money? Not only that, this product is so wondrous that, if you already have a good product, this product will make your already-good product even better.

     And, more saleable.

     In other words, what we're going to do here is create a product that will stand alone all by itself or else can be used to pump up the value of what you've already got.

     Let's get started. Step Numero Uno is to make a rather comprehensive list of all the stuff you already enjoy. If I were to make such a list, an abbreviated version of it would include:

Self-aggrandizement	Skiing
Public speaking	Browsing in bookstores
Playing with my two new kittens	Scuba Diving
Writing my newsletter	Buying surprise gifts for Paulette
Daydreaming

Admiring myself in the mirror

	Messing around with my boat (I just bought the original dive boat from the old TV series "SEAHUNT" starring Lloyd Bridges)
Watching my kids get excited about something.(It seems my son, Kevin,has really taken to video editing)	Producing TV shows (I just produced my first one Friday before last and I loved it!

     Etc., etc., etc. Etc., etc. etc.

     Now, what you should do is make the same kind of list and make it very, very comprehensive. Take some time with this. This isn't some fatuous exercise. No. This is the critical first step to what can become an enormous marketing success!

     O.K., now assuming you've made your list and reviewed it a couple of times, the next step is to take a trip down to your local library. I want you to ask at the reference desk for the following publications: The Standard Periodical Directory published by Oxbridge Communications, Inc., in New York City; the SRDS List Book and the SRDS Business Publications which comes in three volumes: Part I (trade magazines), Part II (classified) and Part III (International Direct Response - mostly postcard decks); and the SRDS Consumer Magazine Book.

     Now, compare your list of stuff you love with the classifications and indexes in all these books. What we're trying to find out here is a rough idea of how many other people share one or more of your passions.

     What you're going to find is there is no readily assessable market that coincides with some of the stuff you love but there are scads of folks who share your enthusiasm for some of the other activities on your list. Let's say, for example, you are just crazy about collecting antique sewing machines. Well, my friend, in this case you're going to find you are pretty much alone with this particular enthusiasm. On the other hand, if you, like me, like to ski, you're going to find there are tons of folks who share your interest. For example, a rather cursory examination of the above-mentioned reference works reveals the following:

Mailing Lists Available:

     1. Ski Dazzle Mailing List: Attendees at the Los Angeles Ski Show: All California names. Total available: 39,128.

     2. Skiers by Age and Income: Buyers who completed a questionnaire stating their interest in skiing and giving information on their demographics and other lifestyle indicators. Selections available: Sex, occupation, marital status, home ownership, credit card usage and ages of children at home. Total available: 2,640,622.

     3. Skiing Enthusiasts: This one's from Donnelly Marketing, the big compiler. Total available: 514,148.

Publications Devoted To Skiing:

 1. Ski Business	         14,432
 2. Skiing Trade News	         11,781
 3. Ski Magazine	        440,083
 4. Ski America	        400,000
 5. Ski X-C	        160,000
 6. Skier Directory	        160,000
 7. Skiing	        440,537
 8. Skiing Utah	        100,000
 9. Ski Area Management	          3,624
10. Ski B.C. (British Columbia)	         75,000
11. Ski Competition East	          7,500
12. Ski Industry Bulletin	         12,000
13. Ski Pro	   (No Circ.Given)
14. Ski Quebec	   (No Circ.Given)
15. Ski Shop Bible Industry Guide	   (No Circ.Given)

     And on and on and on. There's Ski Trails, Ski World, Skier of California, Skier's Advocate, Skiing in Europe, Sno-times, Southwest Skier, Student Skier, Sugarloaf Magazine and so forth, et cetera.

     We have now done two very important things: (1) we have identified an area for which you have passion, and (2) we have verified you have access to millions of other people who share your enthusiasm.

     Sounds like a setup to me.

     Onward to Step #3. Hopefully, by now, I've got you wondering if it would make any sense for you to sell something that relates to skiing which interests you, as opposed to your current endeavor of trying to sell manure to the masses or whatever else you are doing that's boring you to tears.

     Assuming all this makes sense to you, what in the world should you sell to all these people interested in skiing? Should you invent a new type of ski boot? Should you open a ski lodge? How about manufacturing ski clothing?

     Whoa! You're making it too hard. Let's sell something else. Something easy. Something cheap. Something wildly profitable to you and enormously valuable to your customer.

     But first, let's take a breather. I want to tell you a story. Once upon a time, I met a man in Miami who was assigned by a publisher to write a book on how to stop smoking without gaining weight. He told me the secret of the book (eating carrots, chewing gum, who knows?) could be explained in just a few pages. So, therefore, he had to add filler. Statistics on why smoking is bad for you. The story of Sir Walter Raleigh. The history of tobacco usage. And on and on.

     Unfortunately, you see, when it comes to written information, much of America equates value with poundage.

     What I'm talking about here, of course, is the dumb people of America.

     But there are lots of smart folks out there too. People who realize that time is the irretrievable element. People who are mature and astute enough to trade money for time. And these folks want fast, accurate, stripped-down, no-nonsense information.

     And... they're willing to pay for it.

     Hmn? I've got you thinking now, haven't I?

     Another side story: Gene Schwartz, the brilliant New York copywriter, once shared with me how he goes about creating an ad for a book. First, he hires someone to digest the book for him into what he calls a "dialogue." Then, sometimes, he has someone else digest the digest. And then he reads what's left and writes his ad.

     I wonder? How many other people are there out there who, like me, often say to a member of their staff:

     "Hey, read this for me and tell me what it says."

     So, what I'm saying to you this month is this: (1) a stripped-down, accurate, hard-hitting report is the perfect product to sell via direct response, (2) the subject of the report should be something about which you are very enthusiastic, and (3)...

Don't Ever Screw Around
Trying To Sell Something
You're Ashamed Of!

     Why should you? Aside from the obvious ethical considerations, you have literally millions of other options that will be infinitely more satisfying to your soul and your self-esteem.

     Hey, you still with me? You are? Good. Not only are you a wondrously perceptive and gracious human being, you also seem to have the patience of Job.

     So, let's create that report. On skiing. Here's how we do it: First, we trot down to our local library (I went to the one in beautiful downtown Burbank) and see how many books they have on skiing. (The Burbank Library has 41 in their card index.) Next, let's ask at the reference desk for the invaluable...

Subject Guide To
Books In Print

     This is a huge, 2-volume reference work published by R. R. Bowker Company in New York City. It contains the title and other info on almost every book that is currently in print. (Once, I read every title in this reference and went into a bookstore in Canton, Ohio and ordered 605 books at one crack.)

     So anyway, let's look up skiing and see what's listed. Hmn? Would you believe there are 130 titles?

     Press on. Press on. Press on. Let's go over to the...

Reader's Guide To
Periodic Literature

     And look up skiing. Where upon we will find there have been hundreds of articles written on this subject.

     Now, let's go to the biggest bookstore in town and see what they've got. And, let's get a hold of some of those ski magazines and check out the articles.

     Now listen: What you do after this overview of all this material is you take possession of a bunch of it. You check out some of the books from the library, buy some of the books from the bookstore, locate and Xerox some of the articles mentioned in the Reader's Guide to Periodic Literature, you clip out articles from the ski magazines you learned about from the SRDS book and the Standard Periodical Directory and so forth.

     Now, lock yourself in a room and start reading.

     And, every once in a while, stop reading the ski stuff and start reading from your collection of headlines. You do have a collection of headlines, don't you?

     And then, go back to the ski stuff. And later, back to the headlines. And then, back to the ski stuff. And later, back to the headlines. And... and... and...

Bingo!

     Yeah! Somewhere in here you're going to have an "aha experience." That's where you say, "Aha! I've got a great idea."

     And then you develop that idea into a written report that tells skiers something that would be really valuable for them to know. Maybe it's:

How To Ski Everyday
And Get Paid For It!
- or -
10 Ways To Get
Discounts On Ski Equipment!
- or -
How To Avoid Lift
Lines No Matter How
Big The Crowd!
- or -
17 Neat Ways To
Ski Better Instantly!

     Or whatever.

     And you're on your way to making a lot of money by selling a product of which you are proud and which delivers real value.

     Like this newsletter.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


P.S. I met a guy in Akron, Ohio once who turned his passion for model airplanes into a 10 million dollar business. What he did is he had a bunch of middle-aged ladies making models of Piper Cubs, Cessnas and so forth and he sold the manufacturers of those planes on the idea of giving every new purchaser of a new plane an exact replica model the guy could take home and sit on his TV or to the office and display it on his desk. Neat gimmick, eh?

     P.P.S. What's all that yammering and jammering out there from all you folks who already have a product you're proud of? Brighten up. Reading all this hasn't been in vain. You see, you should consider creating a report related to what you're selling and feature it in your ads and give it away as a premium. It'll serve two purposes: (1) it'll pump up your sales, and (2) if you're not already doing it, it'll enable you to measure the response of each of your appeals.

     P.P.P.S. Hey, can you believe the Subject Guide to Books in Print lists 13 titles on skull abnormalities and deformities? Or that there is a news magazine for bingo operators? And at least two magazines (combined circ.: 42,808) for people who like to hunt for treasure?

     See what happens when I get carried away? 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Make God Laugh... And... The World's Most Perfect Stock Trading System!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/azlk_make_god_laugh.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek



Dear Friend & Subscriber,

QUESTION: How do you make God laugh?

ANSWER: Tell him your plans for the future.

I am in the midst of madness. My last issue was also written from Key West and here's part of what I wrote:

 



"...Come closer. Pay careful attention. As I said earlier, when I discovered the world of direct mail and mail order, I was suffused with a certain kind of peace. I knew no matter what twists and turns my life would take, no matter how my marriages and relationships would turn out, I would always have one constant in my life. Namely: What I would do for a living would be to develop, create and exploit direct response (it wasn't called that back then) projects.

"It is still true and will remain so until the day I die. I love it!

"Right now, I'm sitting at a picnic table, under the shade of what Key Westers call a 'tourist tree' (the bark is always peeling) just outside one of the government buildings on Whitehead Street in Key West near MILE ZERO. I'm barefoot, nekkid from the waist up, my toes are wriggling in the scrub grass and marl beneath the table, there's a gentle breeze blowing that refreshes me... and... I sit here merrily writing away... happy as the proverbial pig in shit."

 

 

I forgot. God doesn't want Gary to be "happy-as-a-pig-in-shit." God has chosen Gary to be a low-rent version of a modern-day Job and, if Gary's happy meter gets to registering too high, God seems to feel compelled to take corrective action... like...

Send In A Hurricane!

Three weeks ago, I'm just starting to get settled. I haven't even got all my boxes unpacked from my move from Miami Beach back to the Keys. The weather man keeps pointing to a multi-colored snarl on the weather map on the tube. It's getting closer to Florida.

And closer. And closer.

When it gets to the point where the "strike probability" of where it hits land is 99%... that... it will hit exactly where I live, I decide to scoot. But, my car is in the shop. No cars to rent. They're all taken. No plane seats to buy so I can fly out. They're all taken. What's left? A trusty Greyhound bus, that's what. I dispatch Mongo, my current cohort to go to the Greyhound station. He phones me, "Gary, the bus didn't stop. It just zipped right by."

The next one zips by too. But, this time, says Mongo, the driver at least waved. We decide to give up. But, lo and behold, the third bus does stop. Mongo calls to alert me to be standing at the side of the road (A1A), he gets on the bus, the bus then stops for me, and... we boogie to Miami.

At Miami, I try to get another bus but nobody wants to take the time to talk with me. I go into my Frank Rizzo routine, scream, yell and terrorize everyone at the Greyhound station. Finally, one of the Greyhound workers allows as how there's a car rental place half-a-mile from the bus station. Mongo and I heft our luggage and carry it out into the sauna of a September afternoon in Florida, trudge half-a-mile and finally rent a Lincoln Town Car.

We then take the Turnpike and head straight up the middle of the State. We decide to stop running in the thriving metropolis of a town called "Okeechobee" (all the characters from "King of the Hill" live here) and get two of the only motel rooms left between Miami and Orlando. By the way, a curious thing happened as we were checking in. The guy at the desk gets a call, rolls his eyes heavenward and says, "No Ma'am, I'm sorry. We do not have a pool."

Think about it: Thousands of cars are clogging the highways as people flee the coming storm. The airways are filled with emergency alerts and instructions. Entire families are reduced to staying in a single motel room. The storm looms closer, closer, closer. And here's this daffy bitch, so unconscious of what's happening around her, she wants to know...

"Does The Hotel Have A Pool?"

"No Ma'am. It don't. But don't you worry. In two more days the whole damn State will be... nothing but one big pool."

Well, the hurricane comes to my enchanted islands, squats over them and savages every square foot with hurricane force winds... that last for 20 hours!

I'm sorry God. I beg your forgiveness. No more wriggling my toes in the scrub and marl and being happy-as-a-pig-in-shit. From now on, Misery Is My Motto!

Oooh, a mosquito just bit me! Notice that God? That sucked a little, didn't it? Oh nuts, my contact lenses are drying out and my eyes are getting irritated and scratched. Are you watching this God? It's at least a little bit of a bummer, right? And hey, that spot on my jawline did turn out to be skin cancer (a basil cell carcinoma) and I had to have it removed. That counts for something, doesn't it? My cats Amigo and Tiger were so traumatized by the storm, I had to relocate both of them and actually had to hospitalize Amigo. That's nowhere near "happy-as-a-pig-in-shit." I swear.

I know. I know. These are all minor annoyances. But thousands of people just south of me still don't have electricity and... hundreds of them... have lost their entire homes. Look Lord, I don't mean to tell you your business. But, you think maybe you could see fit to give us folks who live down here "South of Jewfish Creek" a breather?

Thank you. Amen.

All of which brings me full circle to repeat something else I wrote last month:

 





"Part of my contentment is, I've discovered a new aspect of my chosen calling which lets whatever aptitude and talent I have for this type of work really soar! After reading the last several issues of my newsletter, have you figured it out? It's none other than researching and writing about...

Tiny, Overlooked Public Companies!

"I've found this can be very profitable. Better yet, it's NOT only about money. What I've discovered is, there are hundreds (if not thousands) of tiny companies with unheralded legitimate medical miracles which I can publicize (like nobody else!) on a global basis by writing about them in my unique Halbertesque style. This tends to put these heroic little companies on the map... and... helps me make a nice couple of bucks for myself at the exact same time.

"The ad you just cut out and scotch-taped together is a case in point.

"Here's something else: I'm not up for doing any seminars for a year or so. I don't want to take on any clients either. However, if you've got a computer, a modest bankroll (maybe nine or ten thousand) I can teach you how to make several thousand fungolas a day without ever leaving the comfort of your home. What it involves is making short-term trades in the stock market based on breaking news. After I'm done schooling you, you could make three to thirty trades a day and easily average $1,000.00 per trade.

"But, it does require focus. You will have to be on-line at least two or three hours per day. However, once you get the hang of it, it's actually fun!

"If you want to learn how to do this, it will take three separate telephone consultations with me of about one hour each. Depending on your work ethic, you can have all three consultations in the same week or stretch them out over a month.

"No one in the world has ever used this trading method... and... I've never yet had a single losing trade.

"If you want me to teach you how to do this, it's gonna cost you $3,700 smackers payable in advance and you'll need at least five or six thousand more to trade with.

"However, unless I'm wrong, during our third telephone consultation, you'll be making live profitable trades right there while I'm on the phone with you... and... you'll go away from that third call with something much more valuable than the profits you've made. Namely: All the knowledge and skills you need to make all the money your greedy little heart desires.

"If you don't want to work at home, you can get yourself a good laptop (see that new SONY!), a satellite modem and a global wireless telephone aircard... and then... if you so choose...

You Can Make Massive
Amounts Of Fungolas From
Anywhere In The World!

"Like maybe Rio?"

 

Howzabout I give you an update on that little dealybop? First, almost everybody who took me up on that deal is already in profit over and above the $3,700 they had to pay me for the consultation! Why? Simply because this trading system works like a Swiss watch. It is the best way to make money I've ever discovered and I've decided to devote quite a bit of time here to tell you why.

First, you can work from anywhere.

Secondly, you have no boss or superiors to report to.

Thirdly, you have no employees to be responsible for.

Fourthly, you don't have to manufacture anything, assemble anything, pack anything, ship anything or even... write anything!

You don't ever have to make a refund. There's no inventory required. Add it all up and, this way of making money is spelled...

F-R-E-E-D-O-M !

Basically, all I teach my students is (1) where to get the absolute freshest, late-breaking news, (2) how to interpret that news, and (3) how to act on that news.

What happens is, they are alerted to several hundred 100% fresh news stories every day, learn how to scan the headlines in a flash, how to click on the headlines that look promising,  check out to see if the story is about a publicly-traded company, how to make an instant purchase of shares in that company, how to watch the price of those shares of stock change... in real time... and... how to sell and take their profit.

My students can make 15 or more profitable trades per day... and...

They Never Hold On To
Any Stock More Than
50 Minutes!

Look, I'm not going to teach you here in this newsletter what I teach my "telephonic students" about trading stocks. However, I am going to teach you part of what I teach them because it is relevant to whatever you use a computer for, even if you don't trade stocks.

Listen up: The worst thing about working on a computer is the horrible amount of "waiting time" you have to endure. How many millions of man-hours have been wasted while people watch that little pyramid spin around or wait for that stupid little hour glass to disappear?

Hell, it's not millions of hours, it's billions... or maybe... trillions!

Hark unto me: Almost always, the weakest link in the speed at which your computer works is the modem. Modem speed is measured in kilobytes per second or "K's." Think of "K's" as miles per hour or MPH for your computer. If you have an older computer, it probably is operating with a 14K modem. If your PC is relatively new, you probably have a 28K modem. Almost every new computer on the market comes with a state-of-the-art 56K telephone modem. Having a 56K modem doesn't mean your computer will run at 56K's. It simply means it has the capability of running at 56K's... if... everything else is optimized.

Whatever. After you read this newsletter, I want you to call your local cable TV company and see if they can hook you up with a cable modem for your PC. If they can... GET IT!

As I said, the fastest telephone modem you can get allows you the possibility of operating at 56,000 kilobytes per second. A cable modem gives you the possibility of operating at 1,600,000 kilobytes per second. That gives your computer the possibility of running 28.57 times faster. In reality, a cable modem will make your computer run 1,000 times faster... because... the info is traveling on a great, big wide cable freeway... instead of... a clogged-up, telephonic, pot-holed back road. You probably won't be able to get a cable modem. They are expanding this service as fast as possible but, availability is still a long shot for any particular geographic location.

But, check into it anyway. All it'll cost you is a phone call and you might hit the jackpot.

If not, go to a website located at www.direcpc.com and read all the data you find there. What you'll discover is, if there is a clear line of sight (from the top of the building where your computer is located) to the south... you can... for a lousy $300.00 get yourself a satellite modem... which will... make your PC run as much as 50 times faster.

If that doesn't work for you, call your telephone company and tell them you want an ISDN line for your computer. What an ISDN line is, (when you take the technobabel out of it) is simply four phone lines smucked into one. Get one of these dedicated to your PC and it will operate much, much faster.

MORE:  If you are really serious about using your PC, get yourself a geek to strip it down. Get rid of almost all the programs they loaded your computer up with when you bought it... including... the anti-virus program. (You really don't need it but, I don't have time to tell you why right now.) Anyway, what this is like... is... taking a car you intend to race... and... taking all the junk out of the trunk, making the porkers in the back seat get out and walk... and... getting rid of everything else that will slow down the speed of the car. (Including all the seats except the one you need to sit in.)

Also, if you are not on AOL, sign up for it. Not because it's the best... but... because it's the most widely used. That way, if you and I are ever discussing something to do with computers, I can say, "See that quote icon on the top of your tool bar? I want you to click on that." It's like, if I were teaching you trigonometry by phone, we'd both be needing to use the same textbook so I could say in effect, "Turn to page 318 and read paragraph three."

IMPORTANT NOTE: AOL has an 800 number you can use to access the service for $6.00 an hour. I nearly always use it. It's never clogged up because PC users, by and large, are too moronically cheap to pay the fee. They'll waste hours staring at that stupid blue triangle going round and round but, they won't shell out the few extra fungolas to drive on the turnpike.

Should you use AOL's 800#? (By the way, it's 1-800-716-0023.) I don't know. I guess it all depends how much your time is worth. If your time ain't worth six bucks an hour, stay on your slow-assed, clogged-up, local telephone line.

RAM: Get as much of it as your computer will take. RAM (Random Access Memory) is crucial to making your computer work efficiently. It fits into slots inside your computer and it looks like the reeds of a harmonica when you remove the outside plates. RAM is cheap. You can get more of it (and have it installed) at almost any computer store.

Pig out on it. Jam as much RAM as you can into your machine.

Finally, if you don't already have a computer and you're looking to get one, do not shop for a bargain. Choose between a Gateway GP6-333 ($1,799), a Dell XPR 350 or the top-of-the-line Compaq or IBM. You also may want to consider an NEC Direction SPB 400, with a 400 MHz Intel Pentium II chip, a 6.4 GB hard drive, 17-inch monitor and 56K modem.

You can get any of the above PC's for $2,000... whereas... if you try to go the cheap-ass route, you'll be struggling to get a shit machine for around $1,000. You know what? If you learn what I teach my telephone students about trading stocks, you'll be able to make $1,000 to $7,000 or $8,000 several times per day with just the click of a mouse.

Think about it: Do you really want to cripple your ability to do this because you are too stupid and too cheap to get yourself the high quality tools you need?

 

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert



P.S.	Remember how I said you can do what I teach you from just about anywhere? Well, when Mongo and I hauled ass to Okeechobee, I took my trusty Compaq Presario lap-top with me and never missed a beat.

Which reminds me: I'm leaving for Rio on the 18th of November and will be gone for a week. I'm not going to trade stocks from Rio: I've got that Viagra research to worry about.) When I come back, I will teach a few more people this incredible money-making technique I've developed. I'll do it until November 30th... and then...

The Door's Closed!

So, if you're interested, call Selena at 305/534-7577 and sign up now.

Otherwise, you're gonna miss the boat. (By the way, don't let being computer illiterate or not even having a computer stop you. There's nobody in the world who can get you up and running and using a computer... intelligently... faster than me.)

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## More Stock Trading Secrets!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zall_more_stock_secrets.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I have been publishing a website (www.ghlstockalert.com) for seven months. On this website I give investment advice and I sometimes write about stocks which I think are ready to skyrocket in price.

So far, I have written about 12 different stocks... and... every single one of them made a dramatic jump in price. The smallest increase from the time I wrote about a stock until the price of that stock reached its highest point was 42%.

The very best pick I ever made was a stock that increased in value by 350%!

Here, just for the record, are all of my 12 stock picks (arranged in alphabetical order) and what happened to the price of those stocks after they became one of my selections:

 

Name Of
Company
	Ticker
Symbol
	Price
Movement

American Biogenetic	MABXA	up 52%!
Anergen	ANRG	up 100%!
Biomerica	BMRA	up 179%!
Endocare	ENDO	up 159%!
Genta	GNTA	up 233%!
Guardian Technologies	GRDN	up 154%!
HyperMedia Communications	HYPR	up 350%!
Neuromedical Systems	NSIX	up 100%!
n-Vision	NVSN	up 100%!
Semiconductor Laser	SLIC	up 50%!
Swissray International	SRMI	up 44%!
Vasomedical	VASO	up 42%!

                                            

                        

However, recent visitors to my website have been disappointed. Why? Simply because it's been quite some time since I've written a new story about a stock I think is going to skyrocket in price.

Is it because I can't find a new stock I like?

No.

Is it because I have lost interest in the stock market?

No.

Is it because I have decided to retire and spend all my time fishing and scuba diving down here in the Florida Keys?

No, not that either. The real reason is...

I Have Been Too Busy Trading Stocks
To Take Time Out To Write About Them!

Listen: I have discovered and perfected a stock-trading system that lets me make from 5 to 15 trades every day the market is open. My trading system is almost automatic. It works like a Swiss watch. It is, I believe, the most unusual... and... the most profitable trading system ever developed in human history!

It Is Based
On Two Simple
Core Truths About
The Stock Market

1.	Unexpected good news about a publicly-traded company... will
usually... cause the price of that company's stock to jump up like crazy!

2.	That good news... will not... make the price of that stock stay up!

Let's put your imagination to work. I want you to imagine you and I walk into a huge room where there are about 10,000 other people. There's a guy on stage who says he has some very important, late-breaking news about a publicly-traded company.

He says he has Xeroxed 10,000 copies of a news release which explains this new development. He has all 10,000 people in that room form a single line. Then, he starts walking down the line passing out copies of the news release. Now, let's say I've got some "pull" and I arrange for you to be right at the front of that long line. You are the very first person... to get that release!

You look at the release and the headline says something like this:

FDA Grants Approval For
Celeron To Market
New Anti-Cancer Drug!

Wow! That sounds like good news for Celeron, doesn't it? You read the first couple of paragraphs and discover the ticker symbol of Celeron is CLER.

You pull your cell phone out of your pocket, call your stock broker and tell him to immediately buy 1,000 shares of CLER. While you are doing this, other things are happening in that room. The guy with the news releases is still passing them out... and... the people who get that press release are reacting in different ways:

t	Some of the people are reacting very promptly to the news in that release just like you did.

t	Some people are calling their stock broker and asking his opinion (what a joke that is!) of the company written about in the news release.

t	Some people crumple up the news release and throw it away.

t	Some people fire up their laptop computers and go online and start researching the company.

t	Some of the people in that line are reporters and go off to write a story (based on the facts in that news release) which will appear on the TV evening news... or... tomorrow's newspaper.

t	Some of the people have to go to another appointment... so... they put the release in their briefcase and take it with them so they can read it later that evening.

However, no matter what, the news contained in that release will begin to affect the price of the stock...

In Minutes!

OK, let's say 30 minutes have gone by. You check what's happening to the price of that stock... and... it's going up like a rocket!

What do you do? It's simple: You keep riding that stock up and sell out your position about 10 to 20 minutes later.

What happens next? The answer is simple: I take you across the hall to another big room that is jam-packed with another 10,000 people. There's another guy getting ready to pass a news release about another publicly-traded company.

Once again, everybody has to line up single file in a very long line.

Once again, I use my "pull" and I take you to the very front of the line.

Once again, you read the release, immediately buy shares in the company written up in the release. And, once again, you sell and cash in... in less than an hour!

Over and over and over.

Up To 15 Times Per Day!

But wait! What if, when you check the price of the stock 30 minutes after you bought it... the stock is trending down?

What do you do? Simple: You sell out your position immediately... and... you keep your loss down to a microscopic level.

There's one more thing that could happen. Let's say your stock keeps trading at more or less the same price it was when you bought it... and then... it goes up like a rocket!

Is this a win for you? No. Not with my system. With my system...

If The Stock Isn't
Going Up 30 Minutes
After The News Comes Out...
You Dump It!

Sounds pretty simple, doesn't it? Yes, it is... if...you know all the details.

First, you have to know where to get the news. If you are getting your news from the Wall Street Journal, Barron's, Dow-Jones Newswire, Bloomberg... or... from 99.99% of the news services on the Internet... I feel sorry for you! You see... you are aren't reading news...

You Are Reading History!

The first thing you have to know is where to get news that is... just breaking... and... 99.9% of all stock market buyers (and brokers)... don't have a clue!

Next, you have to know how to tell... if... the news you are reading will make the price of a stock jump or not.

That's where I shine. I'm not a stock market guy. I'm not a registered investment advisor. I'm not a broker. However...

I Am The Most Effective And
Expensive Copywriter In The World!

I wrote the most widely mailed sales letter in history. It revealed how you could purchase (from my company Halbert's Inc.) a copy of your family crest and the history of your last name. Ever hear of that letter? More than 600,000,000 of them have been mailed and it's still going strong. The company that eventually bought me out, was sold last year for 90 million dollars... and... I know about someone who is willing to buy that company... now... at an even higher price.

All of which tends to depress me a little since, I sold out years ago.

Oh well. Ever hear of Tova and Ernest Borgnine? They have a multi-million dollar cosmetic company... and... it was my advertising that took their company from $20,000 per month... to more than 12 million per year... almost overnight!

Nancy Quan? The Oscar winning actress? I did the advertising campaign for her "Pearl Cream" product that appeared on TV for six years.

I could go on and on. I think it is safe to say I have created more successful advertising than anyone in history. My monthly newsletter (cleverly called The Gary Halbert Letter) has been in continuous publication for more than 12 years. It is read in 50 countries. I have more than 3,000 fan letters and testimonials from people like Chase Revel (the creator of Entrepreneur magazine)... Robert Allen, best-selling author of Nothing Down (the best-selling real estate book of all time)... Larry Williams (the world-famous commodity trader)... David Ogilvy (found of Ogilvy and Mathers)... and... countless others.

Articles have been written about me by Dow-Jones, Nation's Business, and dozens of other publications... plus... dozens of books. There was even an article about me in the National Enquirer with a photograph of me standing in front of my Rolls Royce.

My friends teased me a lot about that one.

Okay, So What?

Here's what: I don't study the market; I study people. I am the best in the world at writing "stories" which will make people buy.

And you know what else? I am the best in the world... at reading stories (news releases)... and... telling almost exactly... how those stories will affect the price of an individual stock.

More: I have also made it my business to find out how to buy and sell stocks in the fastest way humanly possible. Much faster than you can make a trade with a regular stock broker... or... a "so-called" online broker. When you use an online broker, 90% of the time, you are not just online... you are in line! You know how long it takes me to make a trade?

Less Than One Second!

And you know what else? Even your stock broker doesn't know how to do that. Even if he did know, he wouldn't tell you. Know this: Stock brokers don't know anything about how to make money in the stock market. If they did, they wouldn't be brokers. They'd be traders! Stock brokers are not experts in stocks...

They Are Salesmen!

One more thing: Sometimes a hot story comes out before the market opens... or after... it closes. What then? Well, a lot of time... when that happens... the stock jumps up in price... even before... the opening bell. Let's say a stock closes at $10.00. Then, at 8:00 p.m. a hot story comes out... and... by 9:30 a.m. the next day (when the market opens) the stock is already selling for $15.00. Is there anyway to beat this scenario? You bet there is! With my system...

You Can Trade Stocks
45 Minutes Before The
Market Even Opens!

Hey, why don't you ask your broker how you can do this? Go ahead. I dare you. You see, I already know what he'll say. It will either be, "That's not true,"... or... "Duh?"

Listen: There's much more to my trading system which I am leaving out. I'm leaving that stuff out deliberately. I've got stock trading "tricks" and secrets that will blow your mind.

So, should you hire me to teach you this system?

Probably not.

You see, almost everyone I teach this system makes money. That's because my system just plain works! But, it's more than that. I am very selective about the people I teach. I turn down way more people than I accept. That's because most people are "wired to lose." They trade with "scared money." They take way too long to make a decision. They can't focus. Here are three things you must have... if... you want to make huge profits by using my system:

1.	MONEY: I charge $3,700 (payable in advance) to teach this system. Over and above that, you need at least $5,000 (or more) to begin trading with.

Not only that, I don't want to train you if you have to "scrape" the money together. If you've got to max out your credit cards, borrow the money from your brother-in-law or anything like that, you will be trading with "scared money" and...

 

Scared Money

Can't Win!


2.	TIME: You've got to have at least 90 minutes every day you can use to focus exclusively to
reading news stories and making trades... and...
3.	

THE ABILITY TO MAKE A FAST DECISION: Want to read the companies' balance
sheets? Want to see one of their glossy brochures? Want to call a friend or a broker and ask what they think about the stock you just read about?

You're Out!

With my system, you've got to be fast, focused and fearless.

Well, that's about it. If you've got the right stuff, I can teach you something that will give you financial freedom for the rest of your life. You won't need any employees. (One of my companies had 700 of them and it made me crazy.) Actually, you won't need an office, a partner, a factory, a product, or anything else that makes your life heavy. You can use this system and make thousands of dollars from any location on earth. Add it all up and it spells...

F R E E D O M !

Now, let's discuss something very important: How can you determine if I am absolutely right about all this or not? Could it be I have made some kind of mistake when I try and convince you I have honestly figured out how to beat the stock market?

I've thought about this a lot and, here is what I've decided to do: I'm not going to take credit card orders. I will only accept payment by check... and... I am going to insist... you postdate your check for 30-days in advance.

As soon as I receive your check, I will immediately contact you and start teaching you how to use my system. I'll have you up and running and making profitable trades in about 10 days.

After that, you've still got 2-1/2 more weeks... before I can even cash your check... to use the system and see for yourself if it really works as good as I say it does.

If it doesn't, you can simply stop payment on your check or, call me... and... I will be happy to send back your uncashed check. This way...

There's Simply No Way You Can Lose!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


P.S. 	

By the way, if all this sounds good to you and, you've decided to accept my offer... I would like to speak with you personally for a few minutes... before... you place your order.

As I said earlier, I am very selective about the people I choose to teach. I have a pretty good "feel" about whether or not a person should get involved with the stock market. A lot of people should not. It's not just a matter of intelligence either. A lot of very smart people just don't have the aptitude and "mindset" to be a successful trader.

If I think that's true about you, I'll be honest with you about it. It's nothing to be ashamed of. Nobody is good at everything.

You know, I've always wanted to play the guitar. I've taken lessons at three different times in my life. And guess what? I still can't play a single note!

Does that make me a bad person? No. All it means is I don't have any musical talent.

Anyway, let's get to the bottom-line. Listen: I only have one employee (that's much better than having 700) and her name is Theresa. She's been with me for nine years and, if you are sincerely interested in my offer, give her a call and she'll set up a time for you and I to talk on the phone for about 15 minutes.

That's all there is to it. Our telephone number is...

1-305-534-7577

 


P.S.#2 	

There is one more little detail. My stock trading system is so good... that... if we end up working together... and... you use it exactly the way I teach you... you will make huge profits... or...

I Will Give You
Double Your Money Back!

That's right. The stocks I invest in make gains from 10%, 20%, 40%... all the way up to 350%! Plus, they do this in an incredibly short period of time. This is for real.

So, please call if you're interested. Remember, that's Theresa at (305) 534-7577.

Thank you.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Make Money With Your Personal Computer!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zjlk_personal_computer.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I intended to write this newsletter and mail it to you about two weeks ago.

The reason I'm not writing it until now is, so many things have been changing and, changing for the better. I kept getting more and more info I wanted to include. But, I can't wait any longer. Sometimes, you can have too many good developments in your life that, even one more good development is not welcome because you've got too much on your plate already.

Too much is too much no matter what. Sometimes, having a zillion good options leaves you immobilized rather than energized because, you get to thinking maybe the option you've chosen is absolutely fantastic but, the other one sitting over in the corner might even be better... so... frozen with indecision... you end up making the worst choice of all... which is, of course... no choice.

To hell with it. I'm just going to start writing.

First, for years a substantial percentage of my subscribers have wanted to know how to make money with a personal computer. So, what I'm going to start out with here today is to tell you exactly how to do that.

There are all kinds of formulas for effective marketing but, for decades, the most dependable has been a two-step formula that works like this: You run a little classified or display ad in a newspaper or magazine. Maybe it'll say something like this:

 

Free Report Reveals How To Make $5,000
Per Day By Reading The Classified Ads In Your Local Newspaper!
This report is 100% free. All you have to do is write your name, address and the words "Free Report" on a piece of paper and send it to:

ABC Publishing
123 Elm Street
Massillon, OH  44646 

 

OK, this causes "x" number of people to send you a short letter to get your free info. Then, what you do is, send them a long letter (the free report) which gives them some info and gets them excited enough that they want more... which... they can get by the simple expedient of buying another report from you which gives them the real scoop.

There's dozens of variations of this formula. You can generate leads by radio and TV instead of printed media, you can generate leads now via the Internet (you shouldn't, just yet), your "sales letter" can be a free recorded message, a video tape or an audio tape. Maybe the people can call for the free info instead of write for it. Whatever.

But basically, it's all the same formula. Inexpensive lead-generating ads followed by long, intense, detailed sales presentations.

Let's do a little math: Say it costs you $100.00 to run your lead-generator ad. Say it works pretty well and you get 100 replies. Say it costs you about two bucks to capture each name, print, get all the lettershop work done and mail out your sales letters. Alrighty, now you've spent $300.00 so far. Let's say you are selling your report for $19.95 plus $3.00 shipping and handling and, after all fulfillment costs, you have a gross net of $15.00 per sale. From your 100 sales letters, you get five sales or, after fulfillment costs, $75. Deduct that from the 300 smackers you shelled out to buy the leads and mail your letters, you're in the hole $225.00.

Well, shit, that sucks, doesn't it?

Let's double the response from those 100 letters. Now, we've got 150 fungolas after fulfillment costs and we're only down $150. Still no good. Let's triple the response to where we are getting 15 orders from those 100 sales letters. At a net of $15 per order times our 15 orders, we've got after fulfillment $225 which, when subtracted from our inescapable $300 "get going" costs, we're still down $75.

Let's jack up our response once again. Now, we're getting 20 orders from our 100 sales letters. At $15 per order after fulfillment costs times 20 orders, we've got $300. Not counting our time, we are finally at break-even. Do you understand the significance of what you've just read? Don't be too sure. Maybe you've got it but, just in case you're a true dimwit like Brad Antin or someone like that, please let me make it perfectly clear...

We Are Still Not
Making Money Even
Though We Are Getting
A 20% Response!

Let's change things: Let's pretend, for a moment, it doesn't cost us anything to send our sales letters. We've still paid out $100 for the lead-generating ad. This time, however, since there isn't any cost for mailing our sales letters, when we get our 20% (20 orders) at a net gross of $15 per order, we've got $300 after fulfillment, and when we subtract the $100 we paid for the lead-generating ad, we've got $200 left as profit.

We would've also made a profit with a 15% response!

We would've also made a profit with a 10% response!

We would've also made a profit with a 7% response!

Now, if you really, really honestly want to make money on the Internet with all the bullshit taken out of it, here's what you do: (1) Run a good, cheap little lead-generating ad, and...

Run It In Print!

A newspaper. A magazine. Don't run it on the 'Net. You're not ready for that yet. You can make a lot of money getting leads from the 'Net but, don't try to do it until you're ready.

Next, you write and then type up the best sales letter you can. Then, you upload that letter to a website you have created for you. For the moment, stop thinking about a website as a website. Think of it as a letter. Make your website "Plain Jane." No graphics. No photos. No animation. Nothing that moves. Website "specialists" are like yellow-page ad "specialists." They are like people who design glossy brochures for your business printed in full-color so you will look "professional."

All Of That Detracts
From Sales!

Another little thing: Make your website/letter easy-to-read. That means high-contrast. Don't put blue words against a purple background. I am constantly amazed at how much money (zillions) is spent on advertising which is almost impossible to read. If you have a computer and, you haven't done it recently, go to my website www.ghlstockalert.com. Notice how easy it is to read? Black type on a yellow background is the easiest-to-read color combination you can use. Near the end of the site it says something about a "red-hot" little stock. Notice how "red-hot" is printed in red and how it stands out? It does so because I use color so sparingly. If you fly over a GM manufacturing plant and look down and see 10,000 red cars, you won't notice any one of them in particular. However, if 9,999 of those cars are white... and... only one of them is red...

You Will Notice That Car!

Now listen: The first time you try to use this formula, don't let any of your customers order any way except by phone. Use closing copy something like this:

    "Before you decide to buy this product, there is one more important thing about it you should know. This is something we don't publish on the Internet because we only want our customers to have this particular piece of little-known info. So, if you are interested, whip out your credit card and call us at (000) 000-0000 during normal working hours and we'll give you this extra little piece of critical info."

Is this the best way to sell stuff on the 'Net? No. Is it the best way for a beginner to sell something on the 'Net? Yes. If you've been using a computer for 20-years and, you are still not making money with it, you are a beginner.

Here's another idea for a lead-generating ad:

 

                Is This Fair?
Did you know people with a personal computer get much lower prices when they have their carpets cleaned than people who don't have a computer? The reason this is true is legal but, it is not fair. You can find out why (if you have a PC) by going to:
          www.dumbjoe.com 

 

By the way, what I just wrote may or may not work. That doesn't matter. What does matter is you've just been given an idea which should "spark" your imagination.

We know lots of people will read this little ad and they'll go to your website and the first thing they see is a black headline electronically printed against a yellow background. It says:

The Amazing Reason People With Personal Computers Pay Less
To Get Their Carpets Cleaned Than People Without PC's In Their Homes!

Underneath that headline is a sales letter... that looks like a sales letter that explains using a website (properly) to get new customers lowers advertising costs which we here at Dumb Joe's Carpet Cleaning pass on to our customers, etc., etc., etc., blah, blah, blah, and so on.

How much should it cost you to set up this website? About $160.00 if you do it yourself and about $300.00 if you have someone else do it.

Why should you only take orders by phone at the beginning? Because, probably, you don't know how to write a really good sales letter. Few people do. Just by talking to a hundred or so of your customers or prospects will, I guarantee you, make your next sales letter much more effective.

What about running your lead-generator in print instead of on the 'Net? Here's the reason: The leads you get from print are going to be of much higher quality than those you get from the 'Net... and... you're going to need the highest-quality leads possible until you can write really good sales letters. Plus, the thing which will bring you closer the fastest to having a big success is, have a little success first. No matter how little either. Just doing something that makes you a true $50 profit after all expenses makes you a Player. Maybe just an "embryo" Player... but... that doesn't matter. You'll be on your way. Think about it: You're six feet tall; where you that tall all your life? Of course not. When you were born, you weren't even two feet tall. But you had to be "born" before you could grow up, didn't you? That's what I'm trying to do with you here as far as selling via computer goes. All I'm trying to do (it's a lot) at this point is...

Get You Born!

What's that? You say you already know how to write or at least recognize a good sales letter? What horseshit. I bet you couldn't recognize a good sales letter if it fell out of the sky, landed on your face and riggled. In fact, I bet you don't even know what you get if you give Viagra to a porcupine.*

Here's a test: Joe Polish sent out a mailing to promote a seminar. Unlike most of Joe's promotions, this one, for whatever reason, didn't get him enough seminar attendees. He needed emergency help. He called me. I wrote the following letter and he sent it immediately to his entire list which has a sizable percentage of Halbert fans. Read it now:




Dear Friend,

As you can see, there is a $1.00 bill attached to the top of this letter.

Why? Well, my name is Gary Halbert and attaching a dollar bill to letters is a trick I've been using for years whenever I absolutely must get someone's attention.

Like now.

You may not know it but, in a way, you hold the key to how happy I'm going to be this summer.

Listen: as you probably know, Joe Polish and I have been best friends for several years. But, there is a lot of differences between us. For one thing: he's thirty and I just turned sixty.

But, you know what? In spite of that, I can still bench press more than him. I've got just as much energy as he does too. And personally, I think I'm actually sharper than him. In fact, to tell the truth, in spite of our 30-year age difference, there's only one area where he has an edge on me. And, now he doesn't even have that edge anymore. Why? I can tell you in one word:

Viagra!

So what's this got to do with you?

I'll be happy to explain. Look, you know Joe is a sharp guy... and... you know he has taught thousands of carpet cleaners how to make a ton of extra money. You know, he's a very sharp marketing guy.

But, sometimes, he gets to thinking he's better than he is. Sometimes, he actually thinks he's as good as me. We were having an argument last week and I got really pissed off so, I finally told him:

"If I wanted to, I could talk to any of your Piranha Members for just 45 minutes and, after that, they would know how to make more money in the carpet cleaning business than they could learn from you in ten years!"

"Prove it," he said.

"OK, I will," I told him, "only this time I'm not gonna do it for free. This time you're going to have to pay."

You see, because we are friends, I've never charged Joe for me speaking at one of his boot camps or letting him interview me or anything like that. But this time, it's going to be different... because... you know what you do if you suddenly find out you're an old man, you don't have a wife or girlfriend... and... God has just given you an endless supply of Viagra? I'll tell you what you do if you've got at least half a brain...

You Go To Rio!

That's what I'm gonna do and I'm going to sucker Joe into paying for my entire trip.

Here's the deal: I don't know if you are signed up for Joe's next boot camp or not but, you better be because here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to be at the boot camp. I'm going on last. In other words, I'm going to be the last speaker. By that time, you will have heard everything Joe has to tell you. You'll have all the handouts and all the free goodies that come with the boot camp. You will have heard all the other speakers.

Then, I'm going to take the mike and I'm going to teach you a few things you've never heard before. I'm going to reveal money-making secrets Joe Polish has never dreamed about.

He doesn't even have a clue.

And, when I'm finished, if I have made good on all this bragging, there's only thing I want you and all the other boot camp attendees to do. I want you to stand up, applaud, stomp your feet and start chanting:

"Rio! Rio! Rio! Rio! Rio!"

And that's when Joe will know he has lost the bet and my trip to "Heaven For Elderly Men With Viagra" will be at his expense!

What if I fail? I won't... but... if I do... I will literally crawl out of the room on my hands and knees with my head bowed in shame and I will give Joe all the Viagra I've got left.

I'm serious. What I'm going to reveal at Joe's next boot camp will literally change your life.

Plus, I don't ever intend to reveal these secrets at any other boot camp.

So, if you're only going to attend one more seminar in your life...

It Better Be This One!

                                                                                              Sincerely,

                                                                                              Gary Halbert

P.S.  If you absolutely, positively cannot make this boot camp, then be smart enough to call Joe's office and reserve a set of the boot camp tapes. You'd be crazy not to. By the way, his phone number is 800-275-2643.



How did that letter do? How many extra attendees did it get for Joe's seminar? Write your guess down right here and now.

My guess: _____________________

 

Now, read this next piece of writing also done by yours truly:

 



Stock Of Tiny Nasdaq Company Likely To Explode Upwards Because Of 
Just Released Story On CBS Evening News, Says GHLstockalert

Ocala, FL   July 17/PRNewswire - The following statement was released today by GHLstockalert:

"Guardian Technologies International, Inc. (Nasdaq: GRDN) has shown itself to be extremely sensitive to late-breaking news, largely ignored by most investors.

"However, for any investor paying attention, overlooked small-cap stocks like this represent opportunity for breathtaking profits whenever major media networks lavish attention on the very problems they solve.

"Guardian Technologies manufactures and distributes bullet-proof vests and other 'soft-armor' products to law enforcement agencies, private security firms, U.S. military organizations, and foreign defense forces. They possess three patents on body armor, and have the much sought-after contracts for providing products to the General Services Administration of the U.S. government, all police departments in the Washington Metropolitan Council of Governments, the Philippine Navy, and numerous other police departments and private firms and individuals worldwide.

"Despite being one of the tiniest companies on the Nasdaq, they are still high-profile because their chairman and CEO is Oliver North, who earned notoriety as President Reagan's aide in the 1980's and now commands a wide audience as the host of a controversial talk radio show aired nationally. Regardless of your opinion of North, he knows from his 22-year stint as a U.S. Marine what it's like to be under fire (he has two Purple Hearts), and what it takes to protect a man from a hail of bullets.

"Recent bursts of activity in this stock occurred when the 'Bulletproof Vest Partnership Act of 1998' was signed into law in June (providing $75 million for state and local law enforcement to purchase much-needed body armor), and when news of Guardian's astonishing 1998 first quarter revenue increase of 200% was announced in late May. However, two current late-breaking news stories are dramatically boosting the public's awareness of the need for even private citizens to secure protection against armed criminals: (1) The announcement of the Justice Department to appeal to the Supreme Court today to keep the Secret Service from testifying overheard conversations by the President, which Justice claims will increase the risk of assassination; and (2) Last night's broadcast of the CBS Evening News with Dan Rather, which focused on the astonishing availability of deadly semi-automatic machine pistols to high-risk young criminals; who are using them with deadly frequency against ordinary citizens.

"All this translates to increased demand for Guardian's unique product line as more and more private individuals with something to lose are suddenly realizing their own need for armor. The products provided by Guardian Technologies are not outrageously expensive, and are uniquely designed to withstand direct hits from rifles, automatic pistols, and even sub-machine guns. The patented technology allows these ultra-thin life-saving body armor 'shields' to be light and comfortable to wear under normal clothes without detection.

"With these cutting-edge government-approved products, coupled with North's high visibility and ability to reach millions with his radio show, GHLstockalert believes today's news and network attention to assassination and private citizen's vulnerability is going to force investors to pay attention to Guardian. This company's recent growth and acquisitions (most notably of N/S Microwave last month which has the contract to provide security monitoring for the Goodwill Games this summer) signal a new aggressiveness of this tiny company to take immediate advantage of media coverage."

Is there any reason not invest in Guardian Technologies? "Yes," says GHLstockalert, "this is a small, speculative, volatile company that is definitely not a safe haven for your 'nest egg' money. However, if you've got what it takes to shoot for the moon once in a while, Guardian Technologies (Nasdaq: GRDN) just might give you the most exhilarating ride of your life."

Source: GHLstockalert
Contact: Eve Kincaid, GHLstockalert, 305-534-7577
Website: http://www.GHLstockalert.com 

 

How did this one do? Did it get more people interested in Guardian's stock? How many more? Write your guess here:

My guess: _____________________

 

OK, the test is finished. Let's see how well you did.

What was your guess to #1, the "emergency" letter I wrote to help Joe Polish get more attendees? How many more attendees did it get him? Here's the answer:

0!

Not one. Zip. Nada.

Do you know why? If you think you do, you're wrong. The reason is: You don't know. Neither do I. Remember: "Success has a thousand fathers but failure is an orphan."

It was a "killer" attempt. I knew when I wrote it I would hit an out-of-the-park-homerun... or... I'd strike out as completely as I do whenever I ask a pretty woman to have lunch with me.

Howzabout that release on Guardian Technologies? Did that one work? Yep. Sure did. The day before the release was issued, the stock traded 100 shares. On the day the release went out, the number of shares traded was...

540,100!

I'm gonna brag a little. (Boy, that's a surprise, isn't it?) Anyway, here's my belief: Nobody in the world knows how to research stocks like I do. Dow Jones (who publishes the Wall Street Journal) has done three stories on me in just the last week. When the young lady reporter came to my apartment to interview me, at first I was inclined to brush her off. Then I changed my mind. After a bit of small talk I said, "You know what? I don't give a shit what you write about me. Come on over here and sit next to me at my computer and I'll show you how easy it is."

Then I told her, "First of all, this is the fastest computer in the world," (my modem speed is 1,600,000K) "and here's how I use it."

She was stunned. So would you be if you could sit next to me and watch me work.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert



P.S.

	Question: Right now, I send this newsletter to you by first-class mail. Would you rather receive it by fax? If so, drop us a line with your fax number.

Or, would you rather get it by e-mail? A good idea if you have a printer. A bad idea if you don't. If you would like to get it by e-mail, drop us a line with your e-mail address.

A final thought: If you ain't going to my website and getting your silly ass signed up to be on my website mailing list, you are truly a dumb bunny.

Peace.

* Don King

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## The Most Valuable Skill You Can Have In Today's World...If...You Want To Become Independently Wealthy!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zjll_most_valuable_skill.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

The most valuable skill you can have in today's world... if... you want to become independently wealthy... is... the ability to write a great  sales letter!

No other skill even comes close.

Now, when I say "sales letter" I do mean conventional direct mail sales letters... but... that same skill is the one you must have to create a great space ad, a great TV commercial, a great website, a great telephone script, etc. It would probably be more accurate to refer to this skill... as... the ability to write a great sales... message.

If you have the ability to write a great sales message, you can have all the money you want, all the women you want, all the fame you want... and... all the fun you want.

OK, with all that as preamble, I'd like to say, in my opinion...

There Is Not A Single
Website Designer In The
United States That Knows
What He/She Is Doing!

People who hold themselves out to be website designers SUCK. They know nothing about how to create sales. What they do know is, how to get you to spend an enormous amount of money to have them create for you a so-called "professional" website that will impress people with what a "web-savvy" guy you are.

Everything a website designer will do for you is stupid. (NOTE: For our purposes, the definition of "stupid" is "that which hinders sales.") The first sign (usually) your website designer is a sales idiot is... he will tell you he knows ways to get your website included in the "top ten" when somebody uses a search engine to look for something. What this means is, he knows a lot of ways to "trick" people to go to your website. This, in turn, will get you a lot of "visits" or "Hits" as the pros call them. What "HITS" really stands for is... "How Idiots Track Success." Often, you'll hear a not-too-swift website owner say, "I got 94,000 Hits last week!"

"Gee," you respond, "how many sales did you make?"

"Oh, we can't reveal that," you will hear the person reply.

You're damn right they can't. Who wants to reveal they got 94,000 hits and three $4.95 sales? Doesn't sound so good when you look at it that way, does it?

The second clue (as if one was needed) your professional website designer is a stupid ass is, him constructing your site in such a way... that... it takes forever to load! He'll put a lot of graphics on your site. A lot of animation. A lot of color photos. A lot of hard-to-read text like light purple words against a dark purple background.

Looky here, Truthseeker, when a person goes to your website, they will be looking for information. Easy-to-access, easy-to-read, easy-to-understand information. All that other shit on your site will irritate readers like crazy.

The next and last major clue your website designer is a stupid idiot will be revealed when he tells you how you should promote your website. Here's the acid test: If he suggests you promote your website by using the Internet (in any fashion whatsoever) he's full of it up to his eyeballs.

And now, we come to a simple, simple truth...

You Can't Be A
Great Website Creator Unless
You Are A Great Copywriter First!

Honey, if you ain't a good copywriter, it is IMPOSSIBLE for you to create a great website. You might be able to create a great-looking website, a fascinating website, a website which will get people talking, a website which will attract media attention... but... unless you are a great copywriter...

Your Stupid Dipshit
Website Won't Sell A Damned Thing!

Who is the best website creator in the U.S.? What a dumb question! It's me (of course) you dummy. Ah shit, there you are, fully aware of all my past copywriting miracles and you're still wondering, "Is he still really the best? Is he really up-to-date on making this high-tech Internet stuff work?"

You insult me. But, I suppose (sigh) I'll have to prove myself once again. OK, Buckwheat, here's a little ad I want you to read.


Free Website Reveals Little-Known Facts About
Most Famous Personal Ad Ever Written!




In 1985, a man named Gary was lonely in Los Angeles... so... he decided to write a personal ad.

It was a full-page ad that ran in the Valley Edition of a tabloid-sized paper called "L.A. Weekly"... and... that ad has become the most famous personal ad in history. The response was enormous. He received letters, photographs and even audio tapes from women all over Los Angeles, all over the United States and all over the world.

l The ad was featured on one of the biggest radio stations in Los Angeles (KABC) five different times!

l Several producers wanted to make a movie based on the ad!

l Several other producers wanted to make a TV series based on the ad!

l Several publishers wanted Gary to write a book based on the ad!

l The owners of the now-defunct "Intro" magazine wanted to hire Gary to write for their publication!

l Gary was asked to give an endless series of TV, radio

 

	

and newspaper interviews based on the ad!

l The ad was used in France to teach English to college students!

And so on.

Gary wasn't interested in any of this. All he wanted was to meet a few special women and put a little spice and romance into his life.

He got what he wanted and he ended up in a seven-year relationship with a beautiful redhead.

But, alas, that relationship has ended... and so... he has written another personal ad. Only this time, it's on the Internet... and... it's probably safe to say, you've never read another personal ad quite like this in your entire life. Some people are saying this man has created the prototype "template" for how quality people will meet other quality people in the  first 100-years of the next millennium!

What makes this ad so different? It's impossible to explain. You'll have to read it for yourself to understand. You can do so by getting on the Internet and going to:

www.semihandsomegary.com 

Gosh, that's an intriguing little ad, ain't it? That ad is being used two ways. About 300 of them were prepared in press release format and have been sent to about 300 newspapers. Also, I am paying to run the ad in dozens (if not hundreds) of other publications. That little ad is forcing tens of thousands of people to go to my website. What happens when they get there? Well, what they find is a website so-easy-to-access, so-easy-to-read and so-easy-to-understand... and... so well-written... they read every word of the very long copy to be found on that site.

Try this test: You go to that site (www.semihandsomegary.com) and you start reading it... and see... if you can stop reading it.

I bet you can't... because... as a writer... I'm just too damn good to lose any of my readers once I've got them started.

Does Your Website
Have This Kind Of Quality?

I bet it doesn't. Also, I bet the website of your ace "website designer" can't stand up to this kind of competition either.

But, that is a website designed for personal reasons. Could I possibly do as well with a website designed solely for commercial reasons?

Never You Fear My Dear
When Semihandsome Gary Is Here!

Here's another little ad I want you to read. It has already appeared in Investor's Business Daily and may appear there again from time to time.


Free Website Reveals How To Make Huge Profits In Nasdaq Stocks During The First 47 Minutes The Market Is Open!




If you trade Nasdaq stocks, this will be the most important message you will ever read.

Here is why: Every morning there is a certain pattern that happens in the Nasdaq market during the first 47-minutes of trading. When you understand this pattern, you can buy stocks at approximately 9:07 a.m. (Eastern Standard Time) and sell at approximately 10:17 a.m. (Eastern Standard Time) and, make substantial profits...

Every Single Day The
Market Is Open!

This does not work with NYSE stocks, AMEX stocks... or... "pink sheet" or OTC:BB stocks. It is only reliable when you are trading Nasdaq stocks. You cannot profit from this system unless you trade online... and... you MUST have the ability to get a live, up-to-the-minute, "auto-refreshing" intraday graph.

 

	

However, if you know how to use these simple tools and, you have the ability to focus on the market for approximately one hour each morning, there is no limit to the amount of Nasdaq stock profits you can make. This means you can get out of bed at 9:00 a.m., watch the market and trade until about 10:47... and then... go back to sleep a happier and richer person.

By the way, you also have to watch CNBC from 9:00 a.m. until 9:30 a.m. when the market opens.

Would you like to know how to do this? It's easy to find out. All you have to do is go to a free website, read what it says... and then... you will be ready to start making the most profitable trades of your life. But, you'd better hurry. This message will be removed from the website in just a few more days. Here's the free website address:

www.GHLstockalert.com 

This ad was designed to force the readers to go to another of my websites and when they got there, here is the message they found:

 


Welcome To GHLstockalert! 

Here Is A Little-Known Secret
That Can Help You Make Serious
Profits Trading Nasdaq Stocks!

Imagine the market has closed for the day and a certain stock closed for the session with a price of 20 1/8 per share. 

Now imagine, after the market has closed, a sensational news story comes out about that company whose stock closed today at 20 1/8.

Let's say the FDA has given the company in question approval to market an amazing new cure for baldness.  This new cure is a simple pill that will grow a full head of hair on a man's head in less than 30 seconds and there are no harmful side effects.

We don't have to guess what is going to happen to the share price of this company's stock.  It is literally going to skyrocket in price.

Unfortunately, this jump in price is going to occur before the market opens tomorrow morning... and... before you have a chance to buy that stock at anything approaching the 20 1/8 price where it closed today.

When the story comes out, what will happen is thousands and thousands of people will call their brokers and put in buy orders for Baldness Cure, Inc.  Their brokers will be happy to accommodate them and tell their customers they will buy the shares "at market" for them as soon as the market opens tomorrow morning.

Then, in the meantime, all those brokerage houses (who CAN buy stocks before and after the market opens) will purchase huge blocks of Baldness Cure, Inc. for their OWN inventory.  And, tomorrow morning, they will open that stock at as high a price as the market will bear.

Let's say that opening price will be approximately $35.00 per share.

This means that many brokers will make as much as $15.00 per share on this stock...

The Very First Minute 
The Market Is Open!

And what will happen to the share price of Baldness Cure, Inc. right after the open?  The answer is simple: It will PLUNGE downward in price.  An intraday graph of that stock will look like the graph of a rock that has been thrown off a cliff.

Why will this happen?  Because all those brokers who made up to $15.00 per share as soon as the market opened... will now...

"Sell Short" Thousands Of 
Shares Of That Stock!

This will exert enormous downward pressure on the shares of Baldness Cure, Inc.  Now, imagine Ma & Pa Kettle who bought 10,000 shares and are watching those shares drop as much as $7.00 per share... the first few minutes the market is open!

What do they do?  They panic!  There goes their retirement money.  There goes the Winnebago and all those vacations they had planned.  They decide to cut their losses, call their broker and enter an hysterical sell order.

The stock plunges down further.  Now, it's at $26.00 per share... which is down $9.00 from the opening.

But... all of a sudden it stops falling.  The graph will look like it hit a cement floor, flattened out... and then... started to go back up.  Why is the price now going up?  Because... all those brokers who sold the stock short...

Are Now Covering Their "Shorts."

They have to do this.  You see, the price of a company's stock is going to go wherever it deserves to go... and... the brokers can't stop this from happening.  What they can do however, is put up temporary "toll-booths" and "speed bumps" every inch of the way.

So, how do you profit from all this?  Easy, you turn on CNBC about 9:00 a.m. (East Coast Time)  and listen to Marie who will be yelling at your screen from the bowels of the New York Stock Exchange.  What she will be yelling about is what different stocks will be doing in "pre-market" Instinet trading.  In this case, she will be yelling about how Baldness Cure, Inc. will open 15 points up because of FDA approval for their new cure for baldness.

You don't buy Baldness Cure, Inc. at the open.  You watch it.  You watch it open high at 35 and then watch it plunge down to maybe 26.  Then, you watch the price flatten out and start to go back up.

This Is Your Buy Signal

You buy shares of Baldness Cure, Inc. and watch as the share price starts to go back up.  Probably you will be buying at approximately 9:37 East Coast Time.

The stock goes up, stutters and then starts to fluctuate.  This is your "SELL" signal... and... it will probably happen at approximately somewhere between 10:10 a.m. and 10:20 a.m. East Coast Time.

This phenomenon happens every single trading day of the year.  Get a live intraday graph and observe this phenomenon for a few days... and then... after you've observed it 10 or 20 times, you should be able to start making profitable trades based on this phenomenon... every day the market is open!

What you have just read is the SECOND best secret for trading Nasdaq stocks.  Is there an even better secret?  Yes, there is.  The best secret of all is to become a subscriber to our GHLstockalert Announcement List.  So far GHLstockalert has notified it's subscribers of 15 different stock picks... and... every single stock had a substantial increase in price within 10 days of GHLstockalert making the recommendation.

That's no guarantee this will continue to happen.  Past performance is not a guarantee of future results.  However, we challenge anyone... to even come close to us... when it comes to choosing good stocks to buy!

GHLstockalert carries no advertising (you will never see a banner ad on our website) and we NEVER accept money, stock or any other kind of remuneration for making a buy recommendation.

We Are Completely Independent 
And There Is No Charge Whatsoever For
Being On Our Email Announcement List

If you trade Nasdaq stocks and you are not signed up as a subscriber to our GHLstockalert Announcement List, you are truly missing the boat.  It's easy to sign up.  Just click below and sign up right now!

Click Here To Subscribe To The

GHLstockalert Announcement List 

 

 

As you can see, this copy was designed to convince the reader to sign up as a subscriber to that site... which for reasons I won't go into here... means mucho fungolas for me. By the way, there is now a different message on that particular site which is why I reproduced it for you in this newsletter.

Now, you listen to this: Almost everyone who brags about a website, brags about the "Hits" they are getting. Not me. Instead of telling you about how many visits I got, what I want to tell you is...

40% Of The People
Who Visited This Website
Signed Up As Subscribers!

Do you know how exceptional a 40% "conversion" rate is when you are talking about a website? It's actually maybe... 10,000 times higher... than normal! Why did I get such great results? It's because of the COPY on the website! It was the COPY... the COPY... the COPY... the COPY!

OK, enough. I've had my fun. My ranting for this issue is finished and I'm going to switch to something of a totally different nature.

My biological father died in 1978. He was only 59. He and I were never really close. However, my Dad had a younger brother named Jack. The first memory I have in my entire life is that of my Uncle Jack taking me for a ride on the handlebars of his bicycle. My Uncle Jack is now 73 years old. He lives down in the Florida Keys with his wife Wanda and they have a super-nice house. We share the house. He and Wanda have the top of the house and I have the bottom.

Jack moved to the Keys because of me. Back in the 70's, I invited him to visit me in Florida, whereupon I took him to Bimini in one of my first boats, the trusty "Chicken-of-the-Sea." Jack loved Bimini, loved Florida and especially, loved the Florida Keys. He returned to "West-By-God-Virginia" just long enough to pack his stuff, move his family down here to the Keys, and has been living here, happy as a pig-in-shit ever since. Jack ran a crawfish boat, dabbled in real estate and spent a lot of time on a floating barge building breakwater jetties in and around the city of Marathon. This means he spent a lot of time in the sun.

Really a lot.

He developed various skin cancers. Most of them were Basil Cell cancers which never spread. But, at least one of them on his back was a Melanoma which was removed in 1996 and covered with a skin graft. They thought they got it all... but... maybe they didn't.

Anyway, about two months ago, Uncle Jack started losing weight and feeling listless... so... he went in for a physical. The X-ray showed spots on his lungs and they scheduled him for an MRI. When the results came back, the doctor wanted a personal consultation with my uncle and Jack asked me to go with him.

I did and, when the doctor came into the room, I knew in a micro-second what the scoop was. The doctor seemed like a good and compassionate man and it was obvious he didn't want to tell my uncle the news. But, of course, eventually, he had no other choice. The short of it is, my Uncle Jack has cancer. In his liver. His kidneys. His adrenals. His pulmonary system. His stomach. His back. Everywhere.

Jack has not been defeated by this. Nor have I. Uncle Jack still takes care of his property, does his chores as best he can and he trucks around with me looking at boats and stuff. He hasn't lost his sense of humor either. The other day I told him, "Jack, it could be worse."

"How?" he asked incredulously.

"It could be me!" I replied.

He cracked up with laughter. (By the way, that's an old Johnny Carlton line.)

You know, ever since I can remember, Jack and I have shared a private, secret, inane joke. It's in the form of a question, "If your Uncle Jack was on a roof and his ladder fell down, would you help your Uncle Jack off?"

I know, I know. It's incredibly feeble but, it's something Jack and I have laughed about ever since I was a kid.

I don't know where this situation will lead but, I intend to be here for him every step of the journey he needs me.

Oddly, this situation has not depressed me. I don't feel pity for my Uncle Jack and he doesn't want or need any. He's had a good life, he's got a slice more of it left and, the fact of the matter is...

We Are All Terminal

It took J.F.K., Jr. perhaps 45-seconds to go from being on top of the world to the bottom of the sea in a watery grave. It took Christopher Reeves a micro-second to go from being Superman to being almost totally paralyzed. If history is any guide, none of us are gonna get out of this alive. Not only that, for many of us, our visit on this ball of mud is going to become agonizingly miserable just when we least suspect it.

Uncle Jack's situation has, in a weird way, "energized" me. I have always had a huge earning capacity but, mostly, I have squandered that capacity, making only enough money to satisfy my current needs and whimsies. (Is that a word, "whimsies"?) I'm in pretty good health (I think, knock on wood) but, the truth is, I could be in a helluva lot better shape. Plus, I'm not having enough fun. I keep putting "having fun" off until I complete some new goal or some series of bullshit chores. Anyhow, I have now made three iron-clad resolutions:

1.	To Make Really A Lot Of Money And Make It Real Fast!

2.	To Get As Healthy And As Physically Fit As I Can Be!

3.	To Start Having Some Hard-Core Fun... And... Having It Right Now!

As far as the fun is concerned, I'm pretty sure my website (www.semihandsomegary.com) will spice up my life a teensy bit.

As far as getting as healthy and physically fit as I can, I have rented myself a small office (as a hideaway place to write) which is... right next door... to the gym where the Nazi Bitch tortures my body.

Finally, as far as making a lot of money... and... making it fast... I guess I'll just go back to doing it one of the main ways I used to do it. In other words, now, for the first time in years, I'm going to take on a few clients so...

l      


	If you need a sales letter or a space ad written... call me!


l      


	If you need a website designed (I'm doing one now for Nascar)... call me!


l      


	If you need a telephone consultation... call me!


l      


	If you want to visit me here in Florida for a person-to-person consultation... call me!
l      	If you have money and time but no project... call me! (I've got some doozies for you to    make money with!)
l      	Hell, if you're old, rich, terminally ill and need someone to leave all your fungolas to... then...    you be sure to call me!

Just call (305) 534-7577 and leave your message for Roxanne. She'll call you back and set up an appointment call between us (I refuse to play "telephone tag" any more) and we'll discuss your project. I'll give you my opinion of its viability, whether or not I think I can help you and how much my help will cost you. 

Think about it. But...

Don't Think About
It Too Long!

Whenever I announce I am taking on clients again, my schedule fills up real, real fast!

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
  Web Wizard

P.S. I would have gotten into website marketing earlier... but... I had to wait for Al Gore to invent the Internet first.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Newsletter About Nothing!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/aazz_about_nothing.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

I don't know when you will be reading this but, I am starting to write it on November 8, 2000.

This morning's Miami Herald headline says, "BUSH WINS IT!" The TV however, says we don't know who has won it. Personally, I don't much care. It's just mildly interesting as far as I'm concerned. Florida, of course, is the "linchpin" state which means whomever down here has the best thieves will probably manage to win (steal) the presidential election.

Whatever.

Did you know the "Jerry Seinfeld Show" almost didn't get on the air when Seinfeld told the TV execs he wanted to do "a show about nothing." Why do I tell you that? Because, this is the first period of time in maybe 15 years where I didn't have something I was feeling pressured to write. That's a real luxury for me and I intend to take advantage of it. Some of you will say "Eureka!" as you read this newsletter and your creative juices start flowing. On the other hand, I'm sure some of you will find this "a newsletter about nothing." 

It's not going to be of earth-shaking importance either way.

Listen: I have a tall wooden box I keep in the main salon of my boat. It is painted a bright red. I call it my "fodder box." I put newspaper and magazine ads and articles in there of printed material that, for some reason, I find interesting. There might be a rhyme or reason to my collection but, I dare say, you will have a real challenge on your hands if you determine to try to find it.

Anyway, here's some of the material from my fodder box:

A.	Here's a gadget about 3" wide and little more than 4" long. It has 33 buttons on it and a screen that measure 2-1/2" x 2". On the screen are bunches of little pictures. To me, these little pictures look like a closed envelope; another one looks like an open envelope; yet another is a magnifying glass; a rolodex; but here's two pictures of things I can't make out or understand; then there's a calendar showing one day of the month; an alarm clock with two bells; a calculator; this one looks like something thumbtacked to the screen as though it were thumbtacked to a bulletin board; here's two checkmarks; a Swiss army knife; an airplane; and finally, something else that confuses me. This gadget is called a "Blackberry" and you can get it from Amazon.com.

  The ad says for $499 plus $39.95 a month, you will always be "connected" and you can send and receive e-mail to your heart's content. Plus, you get pager and calendar features, with the day, date and time. And to think, after a mere 7-1/2 years of intense study... you will be able to make use of the alarm clock, Swiss army knife and all the other indispensable doodads which are represented on the tiny screen by all these tiny icons. After studying this ad carefully, I have deduced, it is time to crumple up this piece of paper and throw it away!


B. 	Here's a pair of gasoline-powered boots which has been designed by a Russian professor. Each of these "Fly-Me-To-The-Moon-Boots" has its own 12" piston that fires every time the wearer steps down on one of them, giving him a 13 foot stride and speed greater than Michael Jordan.
C.	Here's a headline I like. It says, "37 Things A Writer Can Do To Avoid Writing." According to the ad under this headline, there are approximately 500,000 books written every year in the United States... yet... 90% of these same books are never published. Thanks to the wonders of technology, it is now possible to publish your book on the Internet (where absolutely nobody will ever read it) for only a few thousand dollars.
D.	According to Reuter's, the number of millionaires in the world increased by 18% last year. There are now 7 million of them, with a total net worth in excess of 25.5 trillion. (And what's holding you back?)
E.	Ted Koppel checks his e-mail only once a month. He is not happy about the enhanced speed of communications. He says it detracts from reflection and carefully-considered answers and solutions.
F.	A man in Wausau in Wisconsin who is a former computer analyst has won $143,000 in damages from the company which used to employ him because... his boss spanked him. According to the article, his boss spanked him as other co-workers watched and when his boss was finished, he put his arm around this man and said, "Now you're one of us."
G.	When it comes to charity, people in Mississippi (the poorest state per capita in the Union) donate more money to charity than any other state. Massachusetts has once again finished dead last for the fourth time in six years. All of this vital information came to us in what's called "The Generosity Index."
H.	Here's a little self-explanatory graph which I am going to ask Theresa to reproduce in this newsletter about the cost of postage. (Now that does have something to do with direct mail, wouldn't you agree?)

I.	MIT (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) is now developing computer systems which use biorythmetic sensors attached to the user's body and tiny cameras that record facial gestures to develop individual emotional profiles. When a user becomes uninterested, frustrated or bored, the software automatically adjusts to something else.
J.	Americans lose their virginity at the youngest average age in the world, that being 16.4. We have sex more often than people in other countries... 132 times a year on average. The Russians come in second with 122 times a year on average and, the French follow in third place with 121 times and, the Greek are next with 115. The Japanese are at the bottom of the list, making love only 37 times a year.

The article continues saying the average number of partners in a lifetime is 8.2. However, the United States is listed as being the most promiscuous with 16.7 partners. This study also says Brazilians are only third when it comes to how many sex partners they have.

This survey was conducted by the condom maker, Durex, and, in my opinion... it is total B.S.
K.	What should be our priority? To help us decide, here are the approximate number of deaths per year from the following causes:

Smoking:	434,000
Alcohol:	105,000
Secondary Smoke	53,000
Auto Accidents:	49,000
Suicide:	31,000
AIDS:	31,000
Homicide:	22,000
Cocaine & Crack:	3,300


L.	The Post Office in Florida encouraged people in 1925 to send live baby alligators back home to their relatives. The cost of sending a baby alligator to someone in your family was 25¢ according to the July 29, 1925 edition of The Miami Daily News. The size of the alligator could not be longer than 12" and as many as 10,000 baby gators were shipped during the course of a normal winter season.
M.	I'm looking at a picture of a guy reading the Miami Herald. The story beneath the picture says, "Many years ago, my husband, John D. Locke, was a prominent advertising manager. We lived a very interesting life and retired in Pompano Beach. One of his highlights and every day pleasures is reading the 'Herald.' He is now 80 years old." (Now, isn't that special?)
N.	"Slaughterhouse Worker Uses Simple Strategies To Become A Millionaire" - that's the headline of an ad written by Russ Whitney.
O.	There is now a proposed regulation to set a 10' height limit here in Florida that regulates "donkey diving." (I kid you not.) The sponsor, Representative Suzanne Jacobs, Democrat, Delray Beach, said the legislation is needed because exhibitions featuring horses and mules jumping into a pool of water is not yet covered by existing state laws on cruelty to animals.

  "The most memorable aspect of them [donkey diving] is the fear and disorientation you notice on the animals' faces after they hit the water," says Joe Taksel. He continues, "This is a belly flop times ten."

One of our legislators is pushing to get the donkey diving height limit raised to 15 feet. However, the Bill originally drafted, lowered the limit to only 5 feet. Personally, I think we need to put a lot of thought into this piece of legislation.
P.	A new tribe of people has been discovered in the Amazon Jungle in Brazil near the border of Peru. There are only about 200 members of this tribe and they live not on the ground but, just beneath the forest canopy. This is great breaking news... because... it is an untapped market. It is a pocket of people that, in my opinion, are in desperate need of a McDonald's and a place to buy "Twisters" at KFC.
Q.	In Japan, there is a company called Medic which markets small range jammers which will stop cell phones from working in movies and other public places. (And all along, I thought there were "Cell Phone Gods.")
R.	How many times do you think people in America go to www.nist.gov to find out exactly what time it is? The answer is 6-1/2 million times per day.
S.	The Welcome Wagon isn't around any more. It's said 1-1/2 million people per year used to receive a visit from the Welcome Wagon whenever they moved to a new home. Now, new arrivals in many cities just get a directory of coupons mailed to them. How insensitive.
T.	  "A Good Scare Is Worth More Than Good Advice," says Sam Ewing.
U.	Here's a list of the bills in circulation in the United States by denomination:
$1 bills:	$6,370,871,342
$2 bills:	$1,116,303,324
$5 bills:	$7,387,791,395
$10 bills:	$13,304,416,330
$20 bills:	$82,267,022,800
$50 bills:	$46,062,973,950
$100 bills:	$280,465,289,400
$500 bills:	$144,314,000
$1,000 bills:	$167,519,000
$5,000 bills:	$1,755,000
$10,000 bills:	$3,450,000


V.	There's a guy named Walter Beerman who was born March 13, 1893. He began working in Nashville at his father's drugstore when he was about nine years old. At 105, he worked 30-hours-a-week at his son's real estate business in Lakeland, Florida.
W.	If you are curious, you can go to www.virtualmakeover.com and order some ingenious software which will allow you to see what you could look like with more than 150 kinds of hairstyles, hats and eyewear.
X.	"Warning: Do Not Read This Unless You Are Already Rich!" That's a killer headline I wrote for a company back in 1998.
Y.	Los Angeles, California is this country's #1 destination for people who have decided to relocate.
Z.	On the following pages is a full-page ad (reproduced to fit into my newsletter) which appeared in Investors Business Daily featuring Martin Weiss, President of Weiss Research, and self-proclaimed America's #1 financial watchdog. His long copy, full-page ad tells you how you can, if you act quickly, avoid being devastated by the coming Y2K crisis.

    

"All hell broke loose when we sent our Y2K surveys to 11,000 banks and S&Ls!

"Bankers threatened me with lawsuits. Regulators hit the ceiling. Why? Because over 1,305 financial institutions are behind schedule in fixing their computers for the Year 2000, and they don't want you to know who they are. But I will tell you. I'll give you the names of the most and least vulnerable. I'll tell you where your institution stands. Plus, I'll show you how to make windfall profits from the coming Y2K Crash."


Dear Friend,

   I recently sent surveys to 11,000 banks and S&Ls, asking them about their progress in fixing their computers for the Year 2000.

   All hell broke loose. Bankers sent me threatening letters. S&L managers went ballistic. Federal regulators hit the ceiling.

   One banker wrote me that "any survey results compiled by your company... will result in dire consequences." Another warned: "If you release any derogatory information regarding our... Y2K efforts, we will immediately begin a lawsuit against your firm and its management."

   But to ensure the safety of your money, you MUST have this information. So I'm publishing the results of our survey - no matter what they say!

"Many [bank] computers
could malfunction or
even shut down."
Congressman James A. Leach

   Here's why: If your bank isn't ready for the Year 2000, your checking and savings accounts could be FROZEN. Worse, just the FEAR of this event could cause a bank run any time BEFORE the Year 2000!

   According to our surveys, there are now at least 1,300 banks and S&Ls behind schedule in fixing their computers. And if you add credit unions, the number of institutions behind schedule swells to over 6,000!

   That's why Senator Patrick Moynihan (D-NY) recently declared: A study on Y2K by the Congressional Research Service "substantiates the worst fears of the doomsayers."

 

	

To help protect you from the impending disaster...

I want to send you
the actual results of
our Y2K surveys - FREE!

   My name is Martin Weiss, publisher of the Weiss Safety Ratings and the YEAR 2000 ALERT.

   According to a study by the US General Accounting Office (GAO), our safety ratings are more accurate than those of Moody's and Standard & Poor's.

   Louis Rukeyser says ours is a "tougher service." Fortune says Weiss is "the most comprehensive source" of information.

   Now, we have just introduced the WEISS Y2K RATINGS for thousands of banks, S&Ls and insurers.

   Without the Weiss Y2K ratings, it will be virtually impossible for you to safeguard your money from the Y2K Crisis. With our ratings, safeguarding your money could be the easiest - and the most important - precaution you can take.

   That's why I want to rush you our exclusive, one-of-a-kind Y2K ratings of the safest and most vulnerable banks and S&Ls in America. Plus, I will also send you our list of the safest and most vulnerable insurance companies.

   And to make sure I get this vital, money-saving information to you as soon as possible - I'll even send it to you FREE.

   It's all in a new special free report that I have just published - Y2K-PROOF YOUR MONEY, by our Y2K expert and financial analyst, John Mauldin. In it, you'll discover...

 

	

* The safest banks, S&Ls and insurance companies in America - and those most likely to run into serious trouble during the Y2K Crisis...

* 3 "Red Flags" that can instantly tell you if your bank or insurer is likely to be ready or not...

* Why many credit unions are particularly vulnerable to Y2K problems - and what you can do if you have money in one...

* Safer than a CD: No $100,000 limit on federal guarantee. No early withdrawal penalties...

* How to protect your variable or fixed annuities, whole life policies and health coverage...

   Y2K-PROOF YOUR MONEY tells you what the regulators and unprepared financial institutions don't want you to know - and what no other publication can tell you.

   If you have a checking or savings account... a bank money market fund or certificate of deposit... or an insurance policy, Y2K-PROOF YOUR MONEY is absolutely MUST-READING for you.

   But we want to do even more to help you weather the Y2K storm.

America's largest and richest
companies will FAIL to fix a lot
of their critical software in time!

   As many as 25 to 30 Fortune 500 companies could be wiped out; up to 180,000 small companies could cease to exist. When computers foul up, everything stops. Assembly lines freeze... checks can't be written... and invoices can't be issued.

   Unless the problem is fixed - and fixed FAST - Y2K-related bankruptcies are inevitable.

   

The Dow could easily fall 4,000 points before the dust settles. And a lot of the bloodletting will take place well BEFORE the Year 2000 deadline. That's why I also want to send you, as a second FREE gift, a copy of Y2K-PROOF YOUR INVESTMENTS: How To Make A Fortune In The Y2K Crash. In it, you will discover...

* The Y2K Losers: Companies that are most likely to suffer from the Y2K Crisis. Get rid of them now before the crowd, or your investments could be wiped out.

* The Y2K Winners: Companies that are most likely to be ready for the Year 2000. When others have sold these shares in a panic, you will be scooping them up and making a fortune.

* Mutual funds: Which ones to avoid, and which ones will actually profit from the decline.

* An amazing mutual fund that will automatically surge 20% every time the stock market falls 10%.

* An investment that you can buy today, BEFORE the Y2K stock market decline, which could be worth 10 or 20 times more AFTER the decline.

* The Y2K Bounce: Just when people have given up hope, things will be getting back to normal. That's when you'll see one of the sharpest, rip-roaring bouncebacks of all time - and will do some serious bargain hunting. Institutions and individual investors will be in a frenzy to own those stocks. We'll own them first.

   The Y2K Crisis will be the mother of all money-making opportunities. And I want you to be with us - on the winning side!

More Important Than Money: How To Protect
Your Home And Family From A Y2K Disaster

   Some well-intentioned, but rather hysterical analysts say you should sell everything, pull up stakes and move to the country. Then they say you should spend a fortune on storage food, electrical generators, and guns and ammo. Frankly, I believe that kind of advice does more harm 

	

than good.

What you need is real-world help - advice you can actually use to minimize the impact Y2K will have on you personally.

   That's why I also want to send you a FREE copy of Y2K-PROOF YOUR HOME AND FAMILY: Your Personal Year 2000 Survival Manual.

   This practical, step-by-step guide is based on our own cautious and balanced assessment of the impact Y2K is likely to have on your city, your home and your family. You'll discover...

* What you should know about the potential for food and water shortages - and what you really need in order to ensure your family's needs are met.

* How to best deal with a health crisis at home - plus urgent advice for anyone on insulin or other long-term prescription drug treatments.

* Simple strategies for coping with electrical failures and brownouts - and how even lengthy disruptions can be remedied by the average homeowner.

All 3 Timely Y2K Survival
Guides Are Yours, FREE!

   These three gifts are carefully designed to help you take three giant steps toward weathering - and actually profiting from - the Y2K Crisis:

STEP #1: Protect Your Money - Your FREE copy of Y2K-PROOF YOUR MONEY reveals the banks, S&Ls and insurance companies best-prepared to protect your money from a Year 2000 disaster - plus the institutions that are LEAST prepared...

STEP #2: Protect Your Investments And Prepare To Profit - Your FREE copy of Y2K-PROOF YOUR INVESTMENTS: How To Make A Fortune In The Crash gives you simple yet powerful strategies for both protecting your investments and actually piling up more wealth even while millions of others are losing theirs...

 

	

STEP #3: Protect Your Home And Family - Your FREE copy of Y2K-PROOF YOUR HOME AND FAMILY: Your Personal Year 2000 Survival Manual helps guarantee the safety and comfort of your home and family.

   For the next 60 days, I've arranged for you to receive all three gifts free with your risk-free subscription to YEAR 2000 ALERT, edited by our Y2K expert, John Mauldin. This is our monthly guide to surviving and growing wealthy before, during and after the Y2K Crisis.

   It's through the YEAR 2000 ALERT that we keep you up to date on all the rapidly changing developments in banking and investments.

   Plus, this is where we introduce you to those companies that are likely to enjoy the most success before and during the Great Y2K Bounce I told you about. Here are just two examples:

* A leading health equipment company which is already Y2K compliant today. It will dramatically increase market share and even buy the competition for a fraction of today's value.

* A little known company that actually makes a killing from buying bad dept, sometimes for pennies on the dollar. The Y2K Crash will be a bonanza for this company.

   In each issue, you get the very latest information from the most knowledgeable, unbiased experts in government, utilities, engineering and finance.

   Most important, you'll discover how to plan your finances in such a way that you'll actually make money - a lot of money - during the Y2K Crash.

The Y2K Panic Is Not Waiting
Around For You Or Anyone
Else. It's Already Beginning
To Hit Markets Right Here
And Now.

   In 1999, long before the computers and banks and insurance companies crash, the public could be panicking, rushing to withdraw their funds.

To protect your money and your investments - and to position 

 

 yourself for the profits of a lifetime - you have to ACT NOW. The Y2K Crisis is already here. There is nothing you can do to stop it.

   Normally, a full year of YEAR 2000 ALERT is a bargain at just $98 per year. But if I hear from you within the next 30 days, it's yours for just $49. That's just 13 cents a day.

   Call us at 800-871-2374 and she'll arrange to have these free gifts sent to you immediately. Plus, ask her to give you - right over the phone - a Weiss Y2K Rating for YOUR bank, S&L or insurance company.

   Some institutions responded to our survey with angry letters and threats. But many also sent us the information we need to assign a Y2K readiness rating. We can't guarantee yours is among them. But if it's not, we'll give you your overall safety rating for your institution, plus the phone number of its Y2K Project Manager or financial officer!

   Don't wait. Get your money to safety - and start making huge 

	

profits - before the Y2K panic begins. Call NOW.

   Sincerely,
Martin Weiss, Publisher

P.S. Sign up for two years - 24 months - and I'll send you FOUR additional bonus gifts to help you survive and thrive:

   The Weiss Y2K Watchdog Service closely monitors the Y2K status of up to three banks, S&Ls and/or insurance companies for you and alerts you by first-class mail if the rating of any of them changes. (Normally, Weiss Ratings charges $300 for two years of this service - but it's yours, FREE with your two-year subscription to YEAR 2000 ALERT!)

   Three Mutual Funds That Will Soar Before And During The Y2K Crisis. One fund will automatically rise 10% for every 10% decline in the S&P! You get no margin calls. And your investment never expires. The other is even more aggressive - it will go up 20% for every 10% decline in the S&P. The third makes money whether the market goes up

	

or down.

   Get Out Now! 18 Popular Stocks That Will Be Hit Hardest By The Y2K Crisis. The Y2K debacle will pound these 18 Goliaths with devastating sales declines. Their earnings will be hammered 50%, 60%, even 100%. You'll discover a great way to cash in on the calamity. Our technique is simple, the risk is clearly limited; and the profit potential is explosive!

   Y2K And Your Retirement. How to build a Y2K firewall around your nest egg, and how to keep it growing no matter what happens in the stock market.

P.P.S. Whether you subscribe for one year or two, if you're not 100% satisfied with any aspect of our information or advice, just call or write our office within 60 days and you'll receive a full refund, no questions asked. And you may keep ALL the materials you've received from us with my personal thanks for taking a look at YEAR 2000 ALERT!

 

About the above ad, was the guy who wrote it a flat-out con man... or... an idiot? I honestly don't think he was either. I just think he is another piece of living proof...

It's Now Virtually Impossible
For Any Of Us To Predict The Future
With Any Reliability Whatsoever

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
P.S.	Thank you for indulging me in the luxury of writing this "newsletter about nothing." Next month, I promise, I will write about something.
P.S.#2	By the way, I'm just curious, did any of you find this issue of my newsletter even a little bit interesting? Fax me at (352) 861-1665 and let me know.
	Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Why

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zllj_thoughtless_writing.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

You should put a lot of thought into everything you write... right?

Wrong.

The very best writing involves almost no thought whatsoever. In truth, to the extent it is possible, you should strive to make your writing an almost 100% "thoughtless" endeavor. I know this seems absolutely wrong to you right now. But, I promise, by the end of this letter, you will completely understand why "thoughtless" writing is the very best writing... and... equally important, you will understand why this is true.

And, along the way, you are going to learn something of almost priceless value which, to my knowledge, has never been revealed before.

Listen, I've got this demented slimeball of a friend/client out in Phoenix, Arizona named Joe Polish. As far as I'm concerned, Joe is borderline valueless but, since his checks don't bounce, I continue to work for him from time-to-time. In some ways, he reminds me of me when (back in 1908) I was his age. What I'm talking about is, he has a thirst for marketing info that makes Lestat's hunger for human blood seem like nothing more than a mild urge.

Anyway, Joe has paid me (a ridiculously small amount) to come visit him three times this year and, every time I go he sucks my mind so dry... that... by the time I get on the plane to fly back to Miami, I sit there in my seat like some kind of zombie who yearns to get back to the peace of his coffin.

In fact, it got so bad the last time that when the stewardess came up to me and asked, "Coffee, tea or milk?" I snarled at her and said...

"Don't You Ever Ask Me Something Like That Again... If This Bullshit Airline
Thinks I'm Going To Give Them Free Consulting To Questions Like That So They
Can Obtain A Higher Retention Of Their Customers, They Are Sadly Mistaken!"

"Gee, I didn't mean to offend you," the stewardess replied, "is there anything I can get you?"

"Yeah," I said, "get me some pure heroin and something to inject it with!"

"Oh," she said, "you've been out to see Joe Polish, haven't you?"

I must admit, after that, the flight did go a bit better.

Anyway, here's what it's like to work for a freak like Joe Polish: He always picks me up at the airport; he's always waiting for me right at the damn gate.

"Gary," he says, "we just did an A/B split on yellow order coupons versus green ones and we're thinking of doing another test on eliminating the phone order option and we need to know what you think about blah, blah, blah, etc."

No "hello." No "How's Theresa? How's Pat? Are your kids OK? Is Bond still getting married in October?"

Nothing like that. Just question after question on how to improve his marketing. I'd say, on average, he usually sucks about $30,000 worth of info outta me before we're even outta the airport. It continues in his car during the drive to his office. It continues when we get to his office. It continues when he drives me to my hotel room. It continues in my hotel room. It continues at dinner at his house. And on and on and on.

Joe's gonna be a new father by the time you read this (the doctor says it's a boy) and, I'm giving eight to five this little sucker comes out of the womb with a copy of Scientific Advertising in one hand and all the back issues of The Gary Halbert Letter in the other. When the doctor whacks him on the ass to start his breathing, the little shit's first words will probably be something like, "Hey Doc... do you send an 'upsell letter' to all the new mothers within 48-hours of when you deliver their new kid? You know, if the kid's a boy like me, maybe you could attach a condom to the first page of the letter as a 'grabber' and, if it's a girl maybe you could attach a birth control pill... or...    etc., etc."

Don't laugh. This may happen.

Monsters do beget monsters.

And so it came to pass, on my last visit, I end up one evening sitting at Joe's kitchen table while he interviews me for this "Mickey Mouse" "Tape-Of-The-Month Club" he has for all his best subscribers. Also present at that taping is Brian Kay, a guy who markets marketing info to certified financial planners and insurance agents; R.D. "Ardy" Skinner, a pretty blonde lady I was going to ask for a date until I learned she prefers roaches to men (literally, she's a niche marketer to people in the pest control business); and Pat Rivera, my efficient, frigid, Peruvian/American assistant who considers me so stupid and dysfunctional, she treats me like I'm some kind of damn paraplegic.

Whatever. That was the set-up. I was tired, irritable and surrounded by the "Roach Lady," the "Peruvian Ice Goddess," an emotionally flat humanoid who thinks insurance agents and financial planners are interesting, and rabid Joe Polish himself who immediately starts a machine-gun flow of questions... which... of course... I am compelled (he's paying me) to answer.

As the questions keep coming, I get more and more pissed off. After a while, I'm thinking, "Hey, you really wanna know the truth? OK, fine, if you can handle it, I'll give you the real scoop on how to turn your marketing endeavors into a virtual 'Operation Moneysuck.'"

And so I did.

It wasn't "pretty" but, during that interview, I just said to hell with it and truly let it all hang out.

Later, Joe asks me if he can sell the tape. "No," I says, "that wasn't part of our deal. Only to your Tape-Of-The-Month Club members," I reminded him.

"So, can I give them away?" he wonders.

"Nah, don't do that," I told him. "If you give it away free, people won't give it the value it deserves. Instead, why don't you make people who want the tape make a donation to the Phoenix Children's Hospital? That way, the people who get the tape will value it more because they had to pay for it even though they didn't pay you."

Well, that's what Joe did and, that tape is being raved about by so many people, Joe has raised thousands for the hospital.

Unfortunately, part of our deal is I had to write the damn sales letter about the tape... and so... I stayed up all night writing that sucker. (I truly was highly motivated. You see, if I got the job done by morning, it meant I could fly back home right away and not have to spend any more time with all these freaked-out, obsessive, info-sucking vampires.)

As it turns out, that sales letter is, I believe, one of the very best I've ever written. Here it is. Judge for yourself.

From: 
Joe Polish in Tempe, Arizona


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Remember in the last issue of my newsletter where I said, "Wait till next month because I've got something that will blow your socks off?" Well, I'm going to hold true to that promise right here and now.

For a number of years now, I've been a subscriber to another newsletter writer. I'm not quite ready to divulge his name but he has numerous nicknames like... the "Prince of Print"... "Ace of Space... "Marketing Guru"... and... "The World's Greatest Copywriter".

This man has charged almost $7,000 per attendee at some of his infamous seminars. How can he possibly charge so much? Because he doesn't just teach marketing. No. He teaches what he likes to call "Killer Advertising" which is so powerful... it almost forces people to buy whatever you are selling!

His clients have included the likes of Ernest and Tova Borgnine, Robert G. Allen (author of Nothing Down), Geoff Scott of Dynasty, Vikki LaMotta (once married to boxer Jake LaMotta), and and George Zangas (a world famous power lifter), just to name a few.

While Blade Thomas was Advertising Director of Entrepreneur Magazine he hired this "guru" as an outside consultant. Even though Blade met and worked with some of the smartest businessmen and marketing experts on earth, he said, "(Mystery Man) stood head and shoulders above them all. When I first talked with him, his ideas seemed a bit unusual. However, I decided to at least test some of these suggestions... and Thank God I did! Within days he taught me how to multiply sales, cut refunds to almost zero and how to enormously increase our bottom-line profits."

With all the marketing miracles he has under his belt, this master copywriter has a real attitude about just giving away his information. But... I've worked out a slamming deal with him and that's what will blow your socks off!

I had to get down on my hands and knees to get this mastermind to come to Arizona for two days and share his genius with me. He was bellowing out such amazing secrets one after the other, my hand got writer's cramp! Fortunately for me... and for you... I audio taped a killer interview with him. To the best of my knowledge I am the first person that has ever interviewed this man on tape.

Just who is this mystery man I've been ranting and raving about? And just what did he talk about? I'm glad you asked.

He's none other than Gary Halbert. And any one of these topics he divulged in detail on the tape could be worth a fortune to you:

t	Why competing on price alone will put you out of business in a New York minute!
t	How to increase the believability of every ad or sales letter you ever write!
t	What to do on a $500 budget!
t	What is the most important component of an ad... and... how to use it to up your results by 500%!
t	What word one company used to double their sales! (This one will blow your mind.)
t	How to write a sales letter that will pull 100 times better than any copywriter will ever write for you... even if you've never written a single word of copy in your life!
t	Two "magic words" that will put you light years ahead of your competition!
t	What key ingredient separates the winners from the losers!
t	The single biggest mistake most people make when writing copy... and... how to avoid it!
t	How to capture yourself in "concert pitch" and convert it into a million dollar sales letter!
t	How to virtually GUARANTEE all of your letters get delivered... and opened!
t	5 key advantages of direct mail over any other marketing method!
t	The best day of the week to drop your mail!
t	How to roll-out a direct mail campaign to the tune of millions of letters... without borrowing  a dime!
t	How to find and rent the best mailing lists on the market for your product or service!
t	A secret technique to find out who is using a mailing list and who continues to rent it! (This information can save you thousands.)
t	A little-known strategy for gathering valuable information on your competitors... without them even knowing about it!
t	How to prevent yourself from getting ripped off by unethical list brokers! (This one secret will save you a fortune.)
t	Why you should create your own competition... and... how to use this strategy to make a fortune!
t	3 little-known reasons why people don't buy from you! (Once you discover these reasons, you will be able to sell virtually every prospect you see.)
t	Why you MUST tell your full story in every ad or sales letter you run!
t	Why you can never mail too often!
t	The best way to take the "fear" out of customers buying from you!
t	Which option pulls best - telephone, mail, or fax? (You'll never guess which option pulls far more replies.)
t	How to hire "Love Boat" celebrities to increase the credibility and response of your next promotion... and... at bargain basement prices!
t	A sneaky but ethical technique for getting your satisfied customers to agree to take phone calls from skeptical prospects!
t	A secret technique for getting unlimited referrals from clients and prospects!
t	Why people would rather die than move out of their "comfort zone"!
t	The importance of "bonding"... and... how to use it to astonish your customers!

Well, that's just a small portion of the cash-generating secrets you will learn when you hear this taped interview. But let me forewarn you... this taped interview is blunt and to the point. But don't let that scare you off. You need this kind of hard-nosed info. It is not a luxury. If you truly want to make some fast, serious money, this kind of information is imperative!

I told Gary my Piranha Marketing subscribers are smart people and I wanted to send them the tape free. He didn't quite agree with me 100%.

He said he was sure a good percentage of my subscribers know and appreciate all of the valuable information I share with them every month... but... there would also be another percentage who consist of nothing but a bunch of "lazy sloths" (his words, not mine). He said these are the types of people who call up and bitch about how I charge too much for my newsletter and marketing program. Or that these are the types of people who complain every month that all I ever do is sell them more stuff. They look at my information as a cost, not an investment.

Unfortunately, I Had To Agree With Him!

I tried to explain some of my subscribers just hadn't taken the time to implement some of my newsletter strategies... or to really understand the value of my newsletter. It was right then and there he made me realize...

The Information I Share With My
Subscribers Can Bring Them A 10 To 1 Return
On An Ad... Or... Double Their Business... Or...
Increase Their Personal Income By 300% Overnight!

Gary said he would be insulted if I sent this priceless taped interview to any of my subscribers who didn't pony up at least a few bucks to hear it. He said, "If someone is too stupid or too cheap to pay for this tape, they shouldn't have it." Who was I to argue? This is the man who's made hundreds of millions of dollars in this business in the last 30 years!

Finally, after what seemed like a lifetime...

We Reached A Settlement!

So, if you want a copy of this "killer" interview with Gary Halbert, all you have to do is write a check in the amount of $20 and make the check payable to the "Phoenix Children's Hospital" of Phoenix. Send the check to me, Joe Polish, here at Piranha Marketing. As soon as I receive your check, I will immediately forward it to the Children's Hospital (it's located here in Phoenix at 1300 N. 12th Street, Suite 404)... and... I will immediately send you a copy of this amazing tape.

That's all there is to it. If you are willing to make a lousy $20 donation to this very deserving children's hospital, you will receive an audio cassette jam packed with information that will help you make as much money as your greedy little heart could ever desire.

                                                                                               Sincerely,

 

                                                                                              Joe Polish

P.S.	My supply of these tapes is extremely limited. So, if you are interested, please let me know right away. I've enclosed an envelope for you to send the check in. So do it right away.

P.P.S.	I forgot to mention, I will also include the handy transcripts of this tape so you can read along and highlight or underline any of the dozens of killer secrets that Gary reveals on this tape. Quite a deal for making a donation to a very worthy cause. And remember, it's me that has to come out of pocket to cover duplication, printing and shipping charges to put this tape into your hands. All the money I receive will go straight to the Children's Hospital.

P.P.P.S	If you would prefer to pay by credit card then fax in the form with your credit card and please allow me to charge $21.00 to your card so I can have $1.00 to cover my merchant card charges and give the remaining $20 to the Children's Hospital.

P.P.P.P.S.	If you're already a Tape Of The Month subscriber, you will be getting a copy of this priceless interview in the mail. But, if you're still interested in making a charitable donation to the Children's Hospital, any contribution will be appreciated.

     

That's a bitch of a sales letter, ain't it? But, I didn't stop there. I was so desperate to get away from Piranha Joe, I wrote an order coupon to go with the letter just to make certain there was no reason these fiends could reasonably ask me to stay in Phoenix (yes, it is 157o but, it's a dry heat) goddamn Arizona even a moment longer. And, I must say, the order coupon is brilliant also. Check it out:

 

Dear Joe Polish,
n YES! I want a FREE copy of the killer taped interview you had with the "Marketing Guru" Gary Halbert wherein I can learn how to make as much money as my greedy little heart could ever desire on topics such as:

l  Why competing on price alone will put me out of    business in a New York minute!
l  How to write a sales letter that will pull 100 times better than any copywriter will ever write for me... even if I've never written a single word of copy in my life!
l  What to do on a $500 budget!
l  How to hire "Love Boat" celebrities to increase the   credibility and response of my next promotion... and...       at bargain basement prices!
l  The best way to take the "fear" out of customers buying from me!
l  How to virtually GUARANTEE all of my letters get   delivered... and opened!
l  3-little known reasons why people don't buy from me!

I think it's commendable you're eating all the costs of duplication, printing and shipping to put this tape and transcripts into my hands FREE... and... all I have to do is write a donation check to "The Children's Hospital of Phoenix" in the amount of $20.00. I understand you will not keep any of this money. On that basis, here is my order.

n YES! I'm not interested in the tapes or the transcripts but feel very strongly about what you are trying to do for the Children's Hospital. I am simply enclosing my check in the amount of $20.00 or you can bill my credit card in the amount of $21.00 and I expect nothing in return.

	

For The Fastest Service
Use Your Visa, MasterCard, American
 Express or Discover Card 
And Fax 1-602-858-0004
24-Hours A Day; 7-Days A Week

 

For Mail Service
Use Your Credit Card Or Write
A Check Or Money Order
And Mail This Coupon To:
Piranha Marketing, Inc.
1801 S. Jen Tilly, Suite C-20
Tempe, AZ  85281 

n  Enclosed is my check or money order for $20.00 made payable to "The Children's Hospital of  Phoenix"... or...

n  Bill my      n Visa         n MasterCard 

                      n Am Exp   n Discover

     in the amount of $21.00

Card No ______________________  Exp____  Signature______________________________

Name ________________________________

Address ______________________________

City ___________________  State _________

ZIP _____________ Country ______________ 

Now, that sales letter and that order coupon are truly pure genius, are they not? Truthfully, I'm more proud of this work than anything else I've written in years. And, even though you think you are so damn smart, I bet you don't even have a "clue" as to "why." You see, in the last half of this letter, I've been lying to you! The real truth is...

I Didn't Write A Single
Word Of That Sales Letter Or
That Order Coupon!

In fact, I didn't even "proof-read" it or add a single change.

Who did write it? None other than my trusty Assistant, Theresa, who has been with me through thick and thin for eight years now. Not only did she write it... she did so at blinding speed... even though... she is not a copywriter. She didn't have to think about it, "struggle" with it, "ponder" on it or nothing. She just plain sat down at her PC and knocked it out.

How can this be? The answer is simple.

You see, over the last eight years, Theresa has typed almost every word I've written. If there is such a thing as a "Halbert style" of writing, it is embedded in Theresa's neurology. In fact, she can probably write more like Halbert than Halbert. It's like driving a car: After you've been doing it for thousands of miles, you don't have to think about it anymore. You literally do it on "autopilot."

In other words, once you're good at it, you do it thoughtlessly.

So, it is with writing. And, to help you understand that, I want you to think about another form of communication which is called... talking. When you are in a relaxed conversation about some subject about which you really have your shit wrapped tight, you don't think about talking, do you?

Of course not. There's no need. After all, like driving a car, you've been doing it for years. Talking is easy. It requires no thought whatsoever. Neither does great writing; it's both thoughtless and automatic.

But wait! Those things are true only if you know what you are talking or writing about. You see, when it comes to communicating, almost all of your thinking...

Should Be Concerned With
The Content Of What
You Want To Communicate!

Great writing requires two elements: (1) You must know your subject cold and (2) there must be almost no obstructions in the neural pathways from your brain to your hands. No mental clots. No inhibitions. No censoring of thoughts. If you've really got this writing stuff down, it will flow from your brain to the written page as easily as lies flow from the lips of a lawyer.

Achieving that kind of uninhibited flow is very hard for most people... when... it comes to writing. But, not for Theresa... because... it ain't her that writes all that stuff. She's not inhibited (at least not in that area) because... it's not her that's writing... it's her embedded "Halbert Neurology" that is... to blame.

In other words...

The Devil Made Her Do It!

So, are you getting a "clue" as to what I mean when I always say, "The key to writing is writing"? Or, why I'm always telling you to mindlessly copy in your own handwriting all those great ads or sales letters you have in your swipe file?

Rowing a boat is easy. Rowing the boat to the right destination is what needs to be thought about.

Capice?

Oh, hell with it. If you don't understand what I'm trying to say by now, you're hopeless. Crack open another beer, sit your fat ass back down on the couch and turn on the tube. Maybe you'll catch that new commercial Marv Albert's doing for Victoria's Secrets.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


P.S.	

That interview I did with Joe Polish may be the best one I've ever done. I can't sell it to you 'cause Joe owns it. However, if you are willing to shell out a $20.00 charitable contribution (just like Joe's subscribers had to do) you too can have a copy of this remarkable tape. However, I've made a deal with Joe that all the $20.00 contributions from my subscribers go to a different "charity."

Here's why: You know that irreplaceable assistant of mine, Theresa, whose evil neurology wrote that great sales letter and order coupon? Well, she's had a little bad luck lately. Her daughter had to be admitted to a Florida hospital recently because of a severe asthma attack. Actually, it was so bad, she had to say in the hospital an entire week and then, required extensive homebound care for an additional week.

In short, all this has left Theresa with horrendous medical bills... and... I'd like to see her get some relief.

So, the bottom-line is, if you, as one of my subscribers, wants a copy of this tape, your $20.00 will go into a little fund I've had my buddy Joe Polish set up that will help pay off the medical bills Theresa has because of her daughter's illness. Joe and I have decided to call it simply the "Theresa Fund" and so... here's the order coupon you should use if you are a Gary Halbert newsletter subscriber. 

Thanks.

 

Dear Joe Polish,
n YES! I want a FREE copy of the killer taped interview you had with the "Marketing Guru" Gary Halbert wherein I can learn how to make as much money as my greedy little heart could ever desire on topics such as:

l  Why competing on price alone will put me out of    business in a New York minute!
l  How to write a sales letter that will pull 100 times better than any copywriter will ever write for me... even if I've never written a single word of copy in my life!
l  What to do on a $500 budget!
l  How to hire "Love Boat" celebrities to increase the   credibility and response of my next promotion... and...       at bargain basement prices!
l  The best way to take the "fear" out of customers buying from me!
l  How to virtually GUARANTEE all of my letters get   delivered... and opened!
l  3-little known reasons why people don't buy from me!

I think it's commendable you're eating all the costs of duplication, printing and shipping to put this tape and transcripts into my hands FREE... and... all I have to do is write a donation check to "The Children's Hospital of Phoenix" in the amount of $20.00. I understand you will not keep any of this money. On that basis, here is my order.


n YES! I'm not interested in the tapes or the transcripts but feel very strongly about what you are trying to do for the Children's Hospital. I am simply enclosing my check in the amount of $20.00 or you can bill my credit card in the amount of $21.00 and I expect nothing in return.

	

For The Fastest Service
Use Your Visa, MasterCard, American
 Express or Discover Card 
And Fax 1-602-858-0004
24-Hours A Day; 7-Days A Week

 

For Mail Service
Use Your Credit Card Or Write
A Check Or Money Order
And Mail This Coupon To:
Piranha Marketing, Inc.
1801 S. Jen Tilly, Suite C-20
Tempe, AZ  85281 

n  Enclosed is my check or money order for $20.00 made payable to "The Children's Hospital of  Phoenix"... or...

n  Bill my      n Visa         n MasterCard 

                      n Am Exp   n Discover

     in the amount of $21.00

Card No ______________________Exp____  Signature______________________________

Name ________________________________

Address ______________________________

City ___________________  State _________

ZIP _____________Country ______________ 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Set Up An Immediately-Profitable Website!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zlll_profitable_website.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek



Dear Friend & Subscriber,

God has managed to surprise me again.

In last month's newsletter, I wrote all about the "killer" "Master's of the Millennium" seminar I am putting together. I did not give details like where and when I'm going to have the seminar, how much it's going to cost and stuff like that.

As I said in that letter, I wasn't giving out that information because there were details about the seminar I didn't want to reveal to anyone unless they were a serious potential attendee... and... I wanted to have a personal telephone conversation with those particular people.

Well, when I wrote that, there were a few things I did not anticipate.

First, I did not anticipate the sheer number of calls I was going to receive. I haven't given a personal seminar in quite some time and there are many people who would like to attend.

Secondly, I did not anticipate Hurricane Floyd. Most of Floyd's fury missed us here in the Florida Keys... but... as you know... Floyd really tore the ass out of the Eastern Seaboard of the United States. There are still thousands of people without electrical power, basic medical necessities, transportation and nearly everything else we have learned to take for granted.

Like phone service.

Many of my subscribers called me from those areas, and then, because of Floyd, it has been difficult or totally impossible to return their calls.

Thirdly, I did not anticipate Tropical Storm Harvey which did slam us here in the Keys. There wasn't a lot of property damage, physical injuries or loss of life but, if you've never experienced one...

I Bet You Have No Clue
Just How Disruptive One
Of These Storms Can Be
To Your Life!

Ah well, it's just that damn "conveyor belt of life" speeding up a little, that's all.

Anyway, because of all this, I am going to reveal all the details of my upcoming seminar right here in this newsletter... because of... the almost dead certainty I will not be able to have a personal conversation with everyone who wants to attend.

The seminar is going to be held at the Phoenix Airport Hilton Hotel (whose telephone number is 480/894-1600) on the 10th, 11th and 12th of December. In case you don't have a calendar handy, that's a Friday, Saturday and Sunday.

The cost of the seminar is $3,995.00 if you pay by credit card... but... only $3,900.00 if you pay by check or money order.

I'd like to explain the reason for this since it might be something useful for you to know if you have a business of your own. Let's say you have a mail order business and your credit card orders average about $15,000 per month. Then, let's say you decide to put on an expensive seminar... or... you initiate a huge advertising campaign... or... you write all your customers offering them a special deal... to which... they respond in droves.

As a consequence, let's say your credit card orders jump up to about $150,000 in one particular 30-day period. Here is what may very well happen: An anal retentive brain-dead bureaucrat who works for the people who process your credit card orders will notice you have a sudden increase in sales which amounts to ten times your normal volume.

You know what that piece of shit will do? He'll put a "freeze" on your merchant account. You won't be able to process any more credit card orders... and... you won't be able to get your hands on the money generated from the credit card orders you have already processed.

It's only fair. After all, anyone who has a sudden increase in sales of 1,000% just has to be doing something wrong. Maybe you're laundering money for drug dealers? Maybe you're processing credit card orders for shady characters who can't get a merchant account themselves? Maybe all these sales are bogus and you are falsifying all those credit card orders?

In any case, Mr. Numnuts will probably not call you to find out what's really going on. He won't initiate any kind of investigation whatsoever. He'll just simply "freeze" your account and basically...

Kidnap
Your Money!

When you go to talk with him about this, you will find him to be a pompous, little asshole full of his own importance... and... even if he believes you are not doing anything wrong...

He Will
Still Hate
Your Guts!

Why? Simply because you are doing something successful, something that indicates to him you are making a lot of money... and... something that brings home to him with great clarity just what a nobody and a loser he really is.

And you, of course, have to be punished for that.

Yes, after everything comes out in the wash, you will get your money back. But in the interim, your business will be crippled for a long period... and... Mr. Numnuts will be gloating all that time you are struggling to keep your business alive. That's happened to me three times so far... and... as recently as the first part of this past year.

One time, FOR NO REASON WHATSOEVER, one of those assholes froze $125,000 of mine for an entire year... and... they even collected interest on that money while it was in "escrow." But, of course, that interest was not passed on to me! (Nor will it be to you.)

Actually, my problems with these jerks have been relatively minor. This stuff happens every day. I have friends and clients who've had more than a million dollars kidnapped by these scumbags of the "Merchant Account Mafia."

So yes, even though I can accept credit card orders, I really would prefer you pay by check or money order.

By the way, in last month's letter, I did tell you about almost everything you will learn at my upcoming seminar. However, there is one little thing I was holding out as a "surprise." But, due to the circumstances, I guess I may as well go ahead and reveal it here and now...

I Am Going To Teach All My
Attendees How To Set Up An
Immediately-Profitable Website...
With A Start-Up Cost Of Less Than $300.00!

Come closer. Pay attention here. When I say "profitable," I mean profitable! Depending on the health of your "greed glands" this is something you can use to make anywhere from a few hundred bucks per day up to more than a million dollars a month.

Not only that, if you are a real hustler, you can have this website up and running with money flowing to you in about five days from the time the seminar is over!

I am not kidding. This is for real.

So, if you want to come to my seminar, you can use the enclosed order form and register by either faxing it to us at 352/861-1665... or... mailing it to us in the enclosed self-addressed reply envelope.

One other thing: I am now about to do something I am going to HATE myself for doing. Namely this: Due to Hurricane Floyd and all the other "acts of God" which have happened since my last newsletter, I am going to give out my personal telephone number (the one that rings six inches from my right hand) for anyone who... for real... needs to ask me questions about the seminar. Here it is...

1-305-289-3316

Let's mush on. As I write this, I'm sitting in one of the public libraries in Monroe County and I have a number of newspaper articles in front of me. One of them appeared in the September 22, 1999 edition of USA Today. The headline says, "2000 'Bug' Unlikely To Disappear!"

Here are a few scattered quotes from that article:

"...experts, including some of the government's top advisors are sticking to their recommendation that people be ready with extra food, water and cash..."

"...the Senate says that local and regional power outages remain a distinct possibility..."

"...as of June, only 37% of all emergency systems were ready..."

"...the Senate says 670 airports remain at risk..."

The Senate report released "grades" of the overall quality of Y2K readiness in eight sectors. They did it with a "star rating" system with five stars being the best rating a sector could have. Here's how it shapes up: Financial Services is the only sector that got a five-star rating. Telecommunications and Utilities both got a four-star rating. Transportation, Business and Government Services all got a three-star rating. And Health Care? Only a lousy two stars!

There was one more sector identified as "International" that also got only a two-star rating. Now listen up: If you can "read-between-the-lines," that's the most frightening revelation of all. Basically, what it translates to is this:

As Of January 1, 2000 A Great
Deal Of All The Business We Do With
Other Countries, Is Going To Go...
Right Into The Toilet!

To all those government bureaucrats who are now admitting Y2K is, indeed, going to be a serious problem, I'd like to say this: "No shit, Dick Tracy."

More: Here's a little something from yesterday's (9/29/99) Miami Herald which I think is remarkably revealing about the times we live in. It's a tiny, three paragraph article buried way back in the "Siberian Pages" of the paper. Here's the entire story:

 

Police Chief Admits
To Molesting 7 Boys

Lawrenceville, VA -- The Police Chief of a farming town and a local electrician have admitted molesting seven boys between the ages of 9 and 16.

Mark D. Harvey, 30, Police Chief of Alberta for three years, pleaded guilty to 13 charges of forcible sodomy and aggravated sexual assault. The assaults took place between December, 1997 and last February. Michael Lee Knight, 41, pleaded guilty to 14 similar counts.

Harvey was placed on unpaid suspension after his arrest. Sentencing was scheduled for December 16.

 

I consider stories like this to be so revealing because of the publicity they do NOT get. Can you imagine what a sensation this story would have been 30 years ago? Now, it's not even enough to earn the bad guys their allotted "15 minutes of fame." Why? Because stuff like this is so commonplace! There are so many stories these days about priests molesting choirboys, politicians stealing money, parents abusing their children, wars breaking out in Bosnia, Kosovo, East Timor (and other places we never even knew existed), we have become "numb" to the atrocities of the modern world.

Believe it or not, this has a lot to do with marketing. It reveals how clever we've got to be now just to get a moment of someone's attention.

Remember how I predicted a few issues ago that gold would likely be going for as much as $1,000 an ounce next January? Well, it has already started to happen. The price of gold just had its biggest one-day jump in 13-years. Who's doing all the buying? European Central Banks, that's who.

Those guys are smart. Don't tell them Y2K is just going to be a little "bump-in-the-road." They KNOW what's coming! Incidentally, these guys realize gold is not an inflation hedge; it's a panic hedge.

And boy, are we ever about to experience a worldwide panic! I think it's going to be exciting as hell (for those of us who understand what's happening.)

Speaking of gold, what about the stock market? I don't know exactly where it will be when you read this letter but, today, as I write this...

The Stock Market Just
Experienced Its Biggest
One-Week Point Loss
In History!

Doesn't stuff like this take the wind out of my new stock trading system? Not at all. With my system, you NEVER invest in the so-called "market"... instead... you invest in individual stocks about which there is really HOT news! Like, for example, Foundry Networks (FDRY) that makes equipment which runs Internet service providers such as America Online.

This stock is a rarity among internet stocks... because.. it is actually profitable! So, when the company decided to go public (right in the midst of one of the biggest stock market declines in history) the price of each of its shares enjoyed a 525% 1-day gain. In case you're interested...

That's A Gain Of
$131.25 Per Share
In One Single Day!

You know what? If you don't come to my seminar, you are truly a dummy.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"Modesty Personified"


P.S.	I can't tell you how much I appreciate all the compassionate letters I've received about my Uncle Jack and my daughter, Cindy. Those letters are precious (and nourishing) to me.

Thank you so much.

You know, I work as hard as I can to come off as an arrogant, conceited, insufferable jerk. But, damnit, so many of my readers (like Conrad Adelman for example) are such caring people, it makes it really difficult for me to maintain that position so I can do my job properly.

How insensitive.

 


P.P.S.	

Oh, I almost forgot. As I told everyone I could reach by phone about my seminar, there is one additional "surprise." If you register for my seminar right now, you can bring one extra person (like your spouse, your friend or your business partner)... for free! But you've got to do it immediately because I'm keeping this seminar small... so... I can give each individual paid attendee personal attention.

Peace.

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Get Yourself Or Your Product Featured On Cable TV At No Cost Whatsoever!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/a_product_self_on_tv.htm

From:
W-a-y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend and Subscriber
 

Over the last year or so, I have been influential in putting together 7 different 1/2 hour cable TV shows which have grossed an aggregate of more than 14 million dollars!

Here's an example. Do you remember Jake LaMotta? At one time he was the middleweight champion of the world and the movie "Raging Bull" starring Robert DeNiro and based on his life.

Well anyway, he and his wife Vikki have been divorced for a long time now and Vikki LaMotta has her own cosmetic business. She's a gorgeous woman and she's the oldest woman ever to pose for Playboy magazine. She looks great, she's got an interesting life story... and... according to my girlfriend, Paulette...

Her Cosmetics
Are Great!

So, as it turns out, I'm in Manhattan on a business trip and I happen to meet the executives who run Vikki LaMotta Cosmetics and I get to talking to them about doing a cable TV show. And, to make a long story short, before long, they were on the air with a show that ran on several national cable networks for more than eight months.

And It Didn't Cost
Them A Cent!

Would you like some of this action? If so, and if you can come up with what I call the three "S's", there's a good chance you too can have a hot cable TV show. Here's what's needed:

"S" #1: A Star: someone who is an authority on what the show is all about (real estate, lowering cholesterol, looking younger, etc.) or a star in the form of a celebrity spokesperson like Art Linkletter or some other well known person with "marque value."

"S" #2: A Story: something we can talk about in a TV interview format like "how I went from rich to poor by becoming a chicken farmer" or "how I learned to buy real estate with no money down" or maybe, "how I lost 200 pounds and lowered my cholesterol level more than 150 points." Etc.

"S" #3: A Solution: this is the most important "S" of all. Does your product or service solve a problem such as poverty, hemorrhoids, obesity, boredom, hunger or the need to be rich and famous?

So, are you marketing something that has all these elements? If you are, stay tuned because this section is going to open your eyes and, perhaps, a whole new window of opportunity for you.

First, some background. Listen: Cable TV is big. In fact, if it hasn't happened already, it will soon come to pass more people watch cable TV than broadcast TV. And, what this means is cable TV networks and independent cable stations are virtually starving for programming.

However, even though it's changing, right now, most quality programming goes to the big broadcast networks which are ABC, CBS and NBC. But, who or what is going to fill all those big holes in cable available time known as "avails"?

Enter The Entrepreneur

What's happened is many cable stations now, instead of paying some independent producer for the rights to broadcast his game show are, instead, getting paid to air certain programs created by self-serving entrepreneurs. The way this works is the entrepreneur will create a 1/2 hour TV "talk show" that interviews a real estate guru who explains how he learned to buy real estate with no money down. Then, during the commercial breaks, instead of selling TV spots to soap companies or something, the entrepreneur uses that commercial time himself to sell something related to the subject of the show.

Like, for example, a home study course with audio cassettes and written material created by the "star" of the show which will teach you how to buy real estate with no money down.

Now pay attention to this: These shows won't work unless they have a unique angle and/or some news value to them. In other words, if you own a car lot and you want someone to do a show about you just because you want to sell more cars, you can forget it. If, on the other hand, you have discovered a way to buy "cocaine Cadillacs" which have been confiscated from drug dealers... and... you can teach others how to do the same and get real bargains... well... that's a different matter.

See what you could do in a case like this is create a set of eight audio cassettes along with some written instructions which will show others how to do it. Then, what you do is contact someone (like me) who is interested in new TV ideas and, if that person likes the idea, he may very well put up all the money and expertise to make it happen.

Here's how it might work. You talk to a producer and, if he's interested at all, you send him your cassette course. Then, the producer will outline the show, arrange for a camera crew and studio time and tell you when to show up at the studio. When the show is taped, you will be interviewed by an expert TV host who will ask you questions designed to draw out the interesting story about how you learned to buy all these confiscated vehicles at dirt-cheap prices.

Then, during the commercials, a professional announcer will extol the wonders of your cassette course and tell the viewers they can get in on all this hot action by calling a toll free 800 number and using his or her credit card.

Now, let's say the retail price of your cassette course is $195.00 plus $3.50 for shipping and handling. O.K., what will happen when the orders come in is the producer will keep about $140.00 of the money and give you the other $58.50 from which you must fill the orders.

And, supposing you can fill your orders for less than $30.00... that means... you net $20.00 on every order.

With No Risk!
No Investment! And
Very Little Hassle!

Where do you find these producers? Actually, I am connected to several of them, but I am deliberately not going to give you their names and phone numbers in this section.

Here's why: These producers get pitched all the time, and, very often, the pitch comes from someone who hasn't done his or her homework. And, those people, all they do is burn your time. Usually, they haven't studied cable TV enough to have a feel for what might work and, secondly, they are unrealistic about how valuable their "precious idea" really is.

Look, if you are really interested in this opportunity, what you do first is start watching a lot of cable TV "sellavision" shows until you get a feel for the medium. Then after you're satisfied you may have something that will fit this format, you start watching the "credits" at the end of the show. You also take note of the address given in the commercials. And, what you do after all that is, you use that info to locate a producer whose show you like and you make your pitch.

Or, as an alternative, you could contact me.

Say, but what if you don't want to split the loot with anybody else? Then, how much will it cost? Actually, it's surprising how little if you take the time to learn the ropes. What it should cost you is roughly about $15,000 to put a 1/2 hour show in the can and maybe another $5,000 to $10,000 to buy enough air time to test it.

And, how much can you make? The truth is staggering. You see, if you do this right, you might, like some of my other newsletter readers...

Gross Up To 26 Million
Per Year

Think about it. Give it your attention.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


P.S.  One person who is always looking for shows is my son Kevin Halbert whose number is (213) 851-8275.  Thank you.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2002 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## I Bet Bill Gates Never Had A Good Piece Of Ass In His Life!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zslj_bill_gates.htm

From:
North of Jewfish Creek


Dear Friend & Subscriber,

      I bet Bill Gates never had a good piece of ass in his life.

      I'll get back to the crucially important subject of Mr. Gates' sex life (or lack thereof) in a moment. But first, please allow me to digress a few moments to other matters of far less global significance.

      Listen, I've been wanting to do something nice... something... very special... for my Lifetime Subscribers for a long time... and... if you're one of my "Lifers" you're gonna love this one!

      As you know, I've been writing and publishing this letter going on 11 years now and, during that time, I've been giving a few very expensive seminars, usually two or three times a year. Well, as it happens, each year, more and more of my newsletter subscribers and seminar attendees are members of the medical profession. Surgeons, shrinks, chiropractors, plastic surgeons, dentists (especially dentists), pediatricians and proctologists. (Speaking of proctologists, how does someone make the decision to make that his career of choice?  Is it like that scene in "The Graduate" where some guy whispers the word "plastics" in Dustin Hoffman's ear? Except, the guy says "assholes!"?)

      Whatever. Let's focus on dentists. Many of the D.D.S.s I've worked with like Travis McFee, Kit Weathers, the Madow Brothers and many others have become fabulously successful. It irritates me so many dentists I have worked with have far eclipsed the meager financial successes of their impoverished mentor. So therefore, I have decided..

The Dentists Of America Have To Pay!

      Ah yes. I've been asked to give a Gary Halbert Seminar especially for dentists. This seminar is not about dentistry; it is about the business of dentistry. But, the way I've put this together, makes it the most valuable seminar... anyone... could attend... no matter what... business they are in.  This is going to be my most intense seminar I've ever given. It's going to happen here in Miami Beach at the Eden Roc Resort & Spa (as posh as posh can get) on April 10th, 11th, 12th and 13th. Guess what it costs to attend? Are you sitting down? Ready? Okay boys and girls, the cost for a dentist to attend this seminar is... $17,000.00!

      You read it right. That's seventeen thousand smackeroos. And, it's gonna be worth every penny! I agreed to do this seminar (and, put my heart and soul into it) based on two conditions:

   1. I get paid a healthy fee.

   2. I get to let my Lifetime Subscribers attend... FREE!

      Condition #1 was no problem. When you're gonna get 100 or so D.D.S.s to shell out 17 thou apiece to attend a seminar, you can afford to be pretty damn generous with the guy making it happen. But, they sure as hell didn't like that second condition. So... I made the decision easy for them. "It's very simple," I said, "if my Lifers don't get to come free, I'm not going to do the seminar."

      They caved.

      And so, Buckwheat, if you are a Lifetime subscriber to this letter... and... you want to attend the hottest marketing seminar ever... and... you want to attend free... here's what you gotta do... and... you gotta do it now:

(A)	Call the Eden Roc Resort & Spa at (305) 531-0000 and book your room.

(B)	After that, and only after that, contact my office... by FAX... and let us know you are coming. We can't take phone calls for this. We're working feverishly to pull this deal together and there's just too many of my Lifers (not to mention all those dentists) who want to attend this seminar for us to spend time with each of them on the phone. Besides, after you sign up, you'll get an info package that gives you all the nitty-gritty logistical details. So, if you want to come, make your room reservation at the Eden Roc and fax my office (1-305-534-8366) a very short letter thanking me for making this possible for you... and... giving me your name, address, daytime phone number with area code, and confirmation number of your Eden Roc room reservation.

      You're welcome.

      Okay, back to Bill Gates and his sex problem. Actually, to be factual, I guess I should describe this as what I perceive to be his wee, wee-wee problem. You see, Bill Gates can only use one hand when he...

      WAIT! I gotta digress again. As I age I suffer more and more from CRS ("Can't Remember Shit") and, if I don't get this next part down on paper, I might forget. So, sit up and pay attention. Come closer. I've just read what I consider to be one of the best sales letters ever written. I'll tell you why this letter is so good after you read it. Here's the letter:

 

 

SPECIAL REPORT

Is The Internet
Alive Or Dead
For Marketers
In 1997? 

Popular
Mechanics

	


AIRBAGS
FOR
AIRCRAFT




Death
of the
Internet




Fatal error
V

 

 

 

 

Dear IC Member,

Pictured at right: the cover of a recent issue of POPULAR MECHANICS, featuring an article "Death Of The Internet." As you know, I've remained an "Internet skeptic", I think with good reason. This article and others, and many savvy individuals' analysis of and experience with the Internet just isn't very good. Let me summarize the negatives first:


1. As this article points out, it's crowded, cluttered, disorganized, and, increasingly, hard to get on - "busy signals for minutes to hours are the norm" - and slow to use. The first class action suit was recently filed against AmericaOnline, seeking to stop their sale of new memberships on the grounds that they cannot provide services as promised to the members they've got. AOL's problems are a microcosm of the entire World Wide Web.

2. The huge numbers of on-line users is, for most marketers, an irrelevant although seductive illusion. Most "business users" are using this thing one way and one way only for e-mail...as a a communication tool, like the phone or the FAX. They aren't "surfing." Or buying. In homes, the primary users are kids under the age of 18.

3. The "marketing success stories" remain few and far between, are often exaggerated and distorted by get-rich-via-Internet promoters, and many are not at all useful as models for the rest of us. The biggest winners are all in the "sex business" one way or another. The two web sites visited most: Playboy and Penthouse. The lion's share of the actual direct sales transactions are with sex products and services related sites. What was the 900# business is now on the Internet, but with pictures. In a recent A&E report on the "gentlemens clubs business" (which is booming), that industry's experts predicted the Internet offered their greatest opportunities for revenue expansion.

4. Contrary to popular promotion, marketing via the Internet is NOT "free." It takes time, attention and energy away from other, more predictable opportunities. There are costs for site set-up and maintenance. Etc.

For all these reasons, and others, I remain an Internet skeptic. However, over the past handful of months, I've conducted an exhaustive analysis of what opportunities do exist and may develop regarding the Internet, for a client of mine already operating one of the largest Internet "malls" and doing about 5-million dollars a year or so of Internet business, and yes, there are positives and positive indicators to talk about, too. For example:

1.	A large percentage of adult Internet users spend a lot of time visiting web sites, surfing, conversing, plucking items of interest off bulletin boards, participating in news groups, and so on. In this month's newsletter, I noted the amount of time each visitor spends at a cataloguer's web site - phenomenal. I can tell you that the average visitor to MY web site goes through five to ten "pages" and stays there for some time. These folks are serious info gatherers.
2.	My favorite expert Ken McCarthy (who I'll tell you more about in a minute) insists that people are less critical of what they find and read on the Internet than they are of traditional advertising.
3.	Somebody hooked to each computer has money. After all, you're talking $2,000.00 or more in hardware, hundreds of dollars for software, and $20 a month or more to be hooked up, for service.
4.	Most of the web sites and other marketing efforts now populating the Net are terrible, defy everything we know about direct-response, and cannot possibly produce. As John Tighe says "In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king." Where all the marketing is done by fools, there's opportunity for the few with smarts. (At Ken's recent seminar, which I attended, he fully explained the big, [sic] most commonly made mistake with web sites and, by gum, just about everybody IS making that mistake.)

And there are some intriguing things you can do on the Internet - for example:

	

NEAR-ZERO COST CONTINUOUS COMMUNICATION
WITH CUSTOMERS AND TARGETED PROSPECTS


@	Once you identify Internet users who are your customers or bona fide prospects interested in what you are all about, you can e-mail them as often as you want, at a cost so cheap it's almost zero...with the push of a single button. Obviously, this has its appeal. Imagine being able to send out a monthly customer newsletter with zero printing or postage costs, no addressing, no stuffing.
	

NEAR-ZERO COST PUBLICITY...PROMOTION TO THE MEDIA


@	One of the few things I can tell you from personal experience is: the media is using this thing. Probably because they're lazy. Journalists of every stripe are going to web sites in search of story material. Talk show producers are searching the Net for guests. I have definitely gotten press as a result of my web site. (There are even pros who do publicity blitz's via Internet for $500 to $1,000. Ken told me about one, which I just used.)
	

LOW-COST, CONVENIENT RESEARCH


@	The Internet is a very valid and powerful research tool. In my newly revised 'How To Make Millions With Your Ideas/Inventor's Friend Course,' for example, we list over 200 Internet locations for help with idea protection, copyright patent, trademark, marketing, financing, business plan documentation, and we include hours on CompuServe, because of their proprietary services and discussion group for inventors.

And there ARE some people figuring out the puzzle: how to make money by direct marketing via the Internet. Small businesses? Yes - there's a garden center and nursery, for example, that reported a $7,000 profit its first 30 days on the Internet. There are mail-order marketers of everything from hot sauces to clothing to speciality books. There are the biggies, like Amazon Books. There is just enough legitimate, successful activity to hint that there could be more.

How Can You Sort Out The Wheat From The Chaff?

Do you remember the old game show "Who Do You Trust"? Who can you trust to give you the straight scoop here?

That brings us to Ken McCarthy. Ken, a long-time IC Member, is one of the very, very few "white hats" I know of in this field. Quite frankly, the crowd of so-called experts promoting get-rich-on-the Internet in various forms is mostly made up of charlatans, liars, frauds and, at best, theorists. Not Ken. Among other things, his company hosted the first business conference held anywhere, entirely devoted to doing business on the Web. Marc Andreessen, the whiz kid from Netscape (100-million-dollar net worth at age 24) was the keynote speaker. Ken's book, "The Internet Business Manual", was the first book published in Japan about doing business on the Internet. And the Japanese computer giant, NEC, holder of over 65,000 scientific patents, pays Ken a fat retainer just for his continuing advice about marketing on the Internet. (By the way, if you have the tapes from my 1993 DM Conference - $3,495.00 per person to attend - you've already heard Ken, although not about the Internet.) Ken has numerous clients, small and large, some of whom ARE making money via Internet marketing, and he is a legitimate practitioner, a service provider charging fair and reasonable fees, and simply somebody who really knows what he's talking about.

Unfortunately, it's almost impossible to get personal time with Ken even if you want it. He's just about as busy as I am - and more reclusive. After all, he IS a "computer nerd." But you may recall that I hosted a special seminar by Ken, just for IC Members, by invitation, late last year. You missed it, but you can still get most of it.

One Of The Toughest Seminar Audiences......

Ken asked me to deliver a small, focused group of tough-minded, marketing savvy entrepreneurs from diverse businesses, who would have their "BS detectors" on and would demand practical, crystal clear, truthful, how-to information from him. I did deliver such an audience (myself included) and we did ask Ken tough and practical questions. We drew out of him information, ideas and proven how-to's that, quite frankly, I haven't found the equal of in all my other research combined. Skeptical as I was and am, I found a few things I could immediately do to profit from the Internet. Some of the people in the seminar who are much more interested in all this went home and implemented dozens of strategies.

By the way, I don't go to many seminars. To do so, I have to write off days that could be sold for at least $4,600.00. I have to travel, and I do enough of that anyway. And most often, I'm disappointed. But I am very glad I was at THIS seminar and I would urge anybody using or contemplating using the Internet for marketing purposes to go - if they could - but they can't, because Ken is NEVER doing this again. He did it just to get everything on tape and into printed form. He's not a seminar giver by profession or passion. But you CAN get the seminar "in a box," to go through in your home, at your convenience.

What Will You Gain?

First, finally, a very clear understanding of what this thing is, how it works, the pros and cons, flaws and opportunities, real costs, and the info you need to determine whether or not you should be involved and, if so, how. Take all the mystery, confusion, techno-gobbledygook out of this, once and for all.

Second, regarding web sites, you'll learn how to "build cheap" and what common copycat mistakes to avoid. By the way, you do not even need to be online yourself - or even to own a computer - to understand all this and, if you choose, to profit from it. Ken shows you how to do everything with pencil, paper and a fax machine. For example, for a low monthly fee, you can have orders or even e-mail captured for you and delivered to you by FAX if you want to do it that way.

Third, you'll learn how to "promote smart." How to do truly targeted "posts", attract site traffic, create publicity, and so on. What you can and cannot do and how to do it.

Fourth, how to buy or rent the services you need without getting ripped off. (It's a jungle out there. One woman at the seminar was being overcharged by hundreds of dollars a month - and blatantly lied to.) You may choose to do some business with Ken. But if you don't, you will be infinitely better equipped to deal with service providers in your home town. You'll almost certainly see savings of thousands of dollars thanks to Ken's blunt advice.

What Can You Get Your Hands On?

Obviously, we can't go back to late last year and plunk you down in the seminar itself. But the giant Manual that I walked away from the seminar with is, itself, more useful and valuable than the literal room full of Internet "stuff" I've gathered from every other imaginable source. It is the seminar in print. Everything everybody got at the seminar plus more. Ken's making it available for just $377.00. Believe me, you can blow three hundreds bucks on utterly useless Internet marketing services so fast it'll scorch your mouse pad. And there is not a decent professional seminar you can go to anywhere on this subject for such a low price.

But there's more. In this exclusive offer, Ken is also including the audio cassettes from the entire day PLUS a 30-minute telephone consultation - both without extra charge.

Oh, and if you wind up using Ken's company to put up and maintain a web site for you or perform other Internet marketing services for you, you get the entire $377 back in service credits. (But don't worry: this is NOT a giant "pitch" for Ken's services. Not even close. This is a thorough, comprehensive, understandable teaching presentation.)

This is a package built to sell for over $1,000.00, yours at about one-third of that price. Ken can only accept a limited number of my IC Members on this basis, and he reserves the right to cancel the offer at any time. If this interests you, I urge you to use the attached Order Form and/or call Ken's office at 415-928-4072. Don't wait. You may be turned away.

Bottom-Line, Final Thoughts

Marketing via the Internet definitely is NOT for everybody, at least not now, not yet. For many, there is a compelling argument for ignoring the entire thing, putting blinders on, and sticking to what works for you now or to more predictable opportunities. However, for some, there is a compelling argument for getting in now, early, learning ahead for the herd, and finding opportunity. I cannot begin to tell you what to do about that decision. I can tell you that, if you do have an interest in using the Internet for marketing purposes, then you need Ken McCarthy's information....to protect yourself, to shorten your learning curve, to have a realistic assessment of your opportunities, and to maximize whatever profits may be possible for you.

Sincerely,

 

Dan S. Kennedy

PS: Personally, I'm not about to pack up a tent, cooking utensils, first aid kit, musket and powder, and go tramping off on a safari in some jungle for my vacation. (Anything less than 24 hour room service is "roughing it" in my book.) But if I was going to do that, I'd damned sure do it with the very best guide I could find and hire.

PPS: This IS a very limited offer. There's an expire date on the order form, but that's the outside possible date. Ken can only handle a limited number of the consultations, so this offer may very well be withdrawn before this expiration date. The only certain way to participate is to call immediately.

 

 

      What you've just read is a letter I consider so good, I think everybody should study it and, seriously consider using it as a "template" for one of their own sales letters. Here are reasons I consider this one of the top 10 sales letters I've ever read:

1.

	It's honest. Almost everything ever written about marketing on the InterNet (including stuff written by me) is bullshit. Much of this misinformation was written by honest but misled and misguided people (like me)... and... much of it has and is being promoted by out-and-out rip-off con artists. Either way, "Bullshit is bullshit" and there ain't none of it in this letter.
2.	It's informative. Even if you have no interest in what's being sold, this letter gives you the low-down real scoop on InterNet marketing by a man who knows what he is writing about. In other words, this letter has value for all who read it, not just for those who want the product it describes.
3.	It's lean. No excess verbiage. Not a wasted word. A direct hit. A "bull's-eye" marketing missile with no clutter whatsoever.
4.	It is balanced and reasoned. No ranting and raving about the "bad guys." No "YOU'RE CERTAIN TO GET RICH WITH THIS!" hyperbole. Explains the pros. Explains the cons.
5.	It's illuminating. This letter does, I believe, reveal what might turn out to be a breathtaking opportunity to make money. I myself am going to order the product it describes.

     What's that? Why do I have to order it? Did you think I already have this product because I myself was promoting what this letter is selling? That I have some financial interest in all this?

      I don't. None whatsoever.

      Dan Kennedy has no clue I'm writing about his sales letter. As for Ken McCarthy, I don't know him from Adam. In fact, until I read Dan's brilliant sales letter, I was 100% oblivious to Ken McCarthy's existence. Never saw or heard him speak at a seminar. Never watched him on video. Never heard him on an audio tape. So, promoting his InterNet product is not what this issue is about. No. It's just I consider the sales letter you've just read so damn good I wanted to make sure all my subscribers got to read it. Just how good is this letter? Well, I'm gonna give it what I consider (arrogantly) the highest accolade I have to offer. What I mean is...

This Sales Letter Is So Good
It Reads Like It Could Have Been Written
By Gary Halbert!

      Hark unto me. I first became aware of Dan Kennedy's existence while listening to one of his audio tapes during a long solo drive through the American southwest. Dan has written many books, given many seminars, created many video and audio tapes and my advice to you is... GET EVERYTHING HE HAS TO SELL!

      When you discover a true marketing genius, you should get every scrap of info he/she has to offer. I can't even imagine something written or taped by Claude Hopkins, Robert Collier, Joe Karbo and other "legends" I wouldn't rush to buy sight unseen. Heed this: If someone's got it, for real... you should feel lucky to be able to buy it from them. Once again, Dan Kennedy has no clue about the contents of this issue of this newsletter. He'll know about it approximately the same time you do. When he gets it in the mail. So... GET HIS SHIT... STUDY IT... GET ALL OF IT! Dan's number is
(602) 997-7707.

      You know, maybe I'll make February my annual month for writing a "Gary Halbert Recommends" issue. That'd be interesting, wouldn't it? An annual review of stuff I think my subscribers should consider purchasing... all of which... I personally have no financial interest in whatsoever.

      Like maybe this: Here's something that will be of interest to "REAL PLAYERS" only. No guarantee of a financial return whatsoever. This is one of those deals that's like a Rolex watch: You don't buy it so you'll know what time it is; you buy it simply...

Because You Can!

      Here's the scoop: For $2,500 fungolas, you can become a sponsor of the 1997 MISS CARIBBEAN AMERICA pageant. I'm not gonna tell you the real reason you should consider this. Certainly not in print. But here are the reasons as stated in the literature:

Event Date: March 14 - 17, 1997

As a sponsor for this 1997 Model Search you are entitled to the following:

One private room (lodging) at the Americana Hotel during the promotion; Complementary meals and drinks at the Hotel/Casino during the span of the promotion; Transportation to and from the airport near the Hotel/Casino; One judge position; Live name mention of you and/or your company during the event(s) if you desire; Distribution of any corporate printed material/information you wish offered to the audience; Gift/benefits packages to include an official 1997 Miss Royal Palm Casino Judge and Sponsor shirt and other Hawaiian Tropic memorabilia; Your name and/or company name to appear on event invitations (if desired); Invitation(s) to the private receptions with the lovely PAGEANT CONTESTANTS, judges, and other VIPS; Invitation(s) to the International finals in Las Vegas; A fabulous weekend of entertainment and fun with super VIP treatment; A chance to rub elbows with Sir Gary of Halbert and some of his fabulous (see this month's calendar) Charisma girls!!!

     Wanna know more about this? If so, call Amy J. Raley at (1-561-995-7265) and tell her you're a Gary Halbert subscriber and you want all the details. But please... don't call if you are merely a "certified wannabe." Please... don't embarrass me. Call only if there is at least a "smidgen" of a real chance you will participate.

      And, by the way, yes, I do have an interest in this dealybop.

      But, it ain't financial.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert


P.S.	I've ran out of space. As far as "Billy's" sex life is concerned, I'll try to get to that in another issue.

Sorry.

Peace.

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## Pound-For-Pound The Most Cost Effective Block Of Space!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zkzz_pound_for_pound.htm

From:
South of Jewfish Creek



Help! I'm trapped in a trailer and I can't get out!

Natural disasters seem to follow me around like I'm a little pile of iron fillings bedeviled by some giant cosmic magnet. Remember that monster earthquake that hit California in 1993? I was there. I left Florida and was in California to head up a brainstorming session on how to profit from the Internet. After the session, I returned to where I was staying, which was an apartment of an ex-girlfriend who was living in Studio City.

She and I are dead asleep when the building starts shaking like a six pack of empty beer cans thrown into a high-speed clothes dryer. I thought for a moment I had somehow passed out in the Empire State Building and King Kong (remember him, the giant ape?) was shaking the living shit out of the building because he wanted to wake me up so he could scream and bitch about something.

The first words out of my mouth (and I swear this is true) were, "Hey baby, was it good for you too?"

Apparently God or whomever was at the control of the GIANT COSMIC MAGNET that night didn't see the humor in my remark because... immediately... a huge dresser crashed down on my head. I managed to get out from under the dresser, wrapped my arms and body around the lady I was with and kept saying over and over, "Just hang in there honey. I've got you. I've got you good. Everything's gonna be OK."

That part about everything being OK turned out to be somewhat of an exaggeration. Her apartment was literally shaken apart. Pictures and photos were flung from the walls; furniture was overturned; her refrigerator had toppled over with the door hanging open and milk, orange juice, eggs, and the like were spilling onto the kitchen floor; her computer, stereo and TV were trashed; and... oh hell, you get the idea.

Finally the shaking subsides a bit and, in the darkness guiding ourselves by sliding our hands against the walls, we stumble from the bedroom to the living room and kitchen areas. Whoa! Holy shit! The first of many (thousands of them) aftershocks hit us. Somehow for some reason I end up in the kitchen area and then, stagger back into the living room/dining room area. "Gary! Gary! Gary!" she screams.

"What? What? What is it?" I reply frantically.

"You Are Tracking Orange Juice And
Milk All Over My Carpet!"

Is that a woman for you or what? Actually, I've noticed that all of us, as one of our coping mechanisms, tend to focus on minutia when something monstrous is happening. Believe it or not, her remark made me feel deeply ashamed and I was standing there with a stricken look on my face when, she looked at me, we both looked at the totally devastated apartment, realized we had both been literally shaken insane... and... we collapsed into a fit of compulsive laughter. (Which, I think, is another coping mechanism.)

I moved back to the Keys almost exactly two years ago. I didn't even get unpacked before me and Mongo man (who has become one of the best copywriters in America) had to catch the last Greyhound Bus out of the Keys to escape Hurricane Georges. I remember when we finally found the last two motel rooms in the town of Okeechobee, how some dumbass woman on the phone was interrogating the motel manager wanting to know whether or not the place had a pool!

Picture it: Cars and trucks are bumper to bumper from Key West to Orlando, rain and wind are hitting everyone with the viciousness of an artillery attack, you can't buy, beg or steal a hotel room or any other place to stay... and... in the middle of all this...

Some Idiot Bitch Wants
To Know If The Place
Has A Pool!

Last year it was Hurricane Irene. She dumped so much rain on this part of Florida, she flooded me out of my apartment and I've been almost a total transient ever since. I rode that one out with my Aunt and Uncle in the upstairs part of the house. By that time Jack's cancer had gotten hold of his mental faculties and I remember him asking me, "Gary, I wonder why the electricity just went out?"

"Gee, Uncle Jack, maybe it has something to do with the hurricane going on outside."

"Well, damnit, someone needs to do something about it. Wanda, you call 'Rumor Control' right now!"

And so it goes. Now it's Debby. Only this time, I've decided to write my newsletter before she hits instead of after. I think it's just my way of dealing with minutia instead of the monster. I know how to write a newsletter. I don't know how to control acts of God. My son Bond just called urging me to get out of here. But you know what? ALL Keys' visitors have been ordered to leave by Monroe County Emergency Management. So have all high-profile vehicles. Highway 1 (the only road out) is clogged with semi's, campers, RV's, buses, cars, etc. Just one of those suckers has to run out of gas, blow a tire or whatever and you'll have thousands of vehicles stranded about 1-1/2 inches above sea level just stopped there like sitting ducks for sweet Debby to eviscerate at her leisure. Besides the "strike zone" probability area of this bitch is anywhere from Key West to Palm Beach which means...

All Those Who Are
Fleeing Debby Might Be
Driving Right Into Her Arms!

Do you give a shit? Of course not. Hey, you don't live here... so... I don't blame you. To tell the truth, I myself haven't been fretting too much about all those tornadoes in Oklahoma and Texas. What you want is to learn to write copy, right? Well, since that's my job, I've decided to get to it! Here's a choice piece for your "swipe file."

 


KEYS TOURISM ADVISORY #2 8/22/00, 11 a.m.

INFORMATION FROM THE MONROE COUNTY TOURIST DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL IN CONJUNCTION WITH MONROE 
COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT

KEYS VISITORS ORDERED TO LEAVE

BECAUSE OF DEBBY

VACATIONERS TO THE KEYS SHOULD POSTPONE

TRAVEL PLANS

18-MILE STRETCH RE-OPENS FOLLOWING

TANKER ACCIDENT

"A mandatory evacuation order for all visitors and non-residents to the Florida Keys has been ordered by Monroe County Emergency Management, effective noon today (Wednesday Aug. 23), due to the threat of Tropical Storm Debby, A state of emergency is now in effect for Monroe County.

"Previously a hurricane, at 11 a.m. Wednesday, Debby had been downgraded to a tropical storm by the National Hurricane Center, but is expected to re-intensify and regain hurricane status once it moves over open water. The 11 a.m. position had the center of the storm situated 19.8 N, 69.7 W or just off the northern coast of the Dominican Republic and about 720 miles southeast of the Upper Keys. Sustained winds are at 70 mph and the storm was moving just north of west, at about 17 mph.

"Although the projected United States landfall position of the storm is uncertain, the egress order for visitors is being issued as a precautionary measure according to Billy Wagner, Monroe County Emergency Management Director.

"Vacationers with immediate plans to travel to the Keys should postpone their trips until the storm is well clear of the area and the tourism infrastructure has normalized.

"All state and county parks and private campground are ordered to close at noon today. All high-profile recreational vehicles, travel trailers and tent campers are ordered to leave the Keys. Marine interests should begin preparations to secure their vessels and anyone wishing to trailer their boats out of the Keys should do so at this time. Jewfish Creek and Snake Creek bridges will be ordered locked down if a resident evacuation is needed.

"All residents need to pay close attention to the progress of Debby, begin to initiate hurricane preparation plans and be ready to respond to an evacuation order.

"No resident evacuations have been ordered at this time. Schools are to close in Monroe County Thursday and Friday.

"Monroe County Emergency Management has activated its Emergency Operations Center. The Monroe County Emergency Information line, 1-800-955-5504, is activated as well. The phone number for the multilingual Keys Visitors Assistance Line is 1-800-771-KEYS. Keys tourism advisories are posted on the Florida Keys Web site at www.fla-keys.com.

"The Orlando/Orange County Convention & Visitors Bureau has a central database of available hotel rooms in Central Florida. Visitors and residents interested in relocating to Orlando can call (407) 363-5872 for details on availability and rates."

 

18-MILE STRETCH RE-OPENED AFTER ACCIDENT

"Closed for 20 hours following an accident involving a tanker tractor-trailer, the 18-mile stretch, that connects the Keys with Florida City, re-opened Wednesday at 4 a.m. Wednesday morning, according to the Monroe County Sheriffs Office. Card Sound Road is also open to traffic and the toll there has been temporarily suspended.

###

 

Hey, that was a sorta compelling piece of copy, wasn't it? The "sales job" kinda gets lost on me though when they get to the part about how... yesterday... that overturned tanker tractor-trailer closed what's known as "The 18 Mile Stretch" for 20 hours. Be kind of a bitch if that happens again today or tomorrow, won't it?

Hey, by the time you read this, it'll be all over... and maybe... absolutely nothing bad will have happened. Either way, what can it hurt by teaching you more about how to write copy? OK, what I am about to teach you is a way (maybe not the best or most inspired way, but... a way...) that at the very least gets the job done.

1.	Use your collection of 3x5 headline cards to write a headline.
2.	Use your nugget notes about the features and benefits of your product... plus... inspiration from your "swipe file" to write as many "bullets" as possible.
3.	Use the opening paragraph you are about to read in my latest ad as an exact template for your ad.
4.	Use the close (that's where I ask for the money) as an exact template for your ad.

Now listen up! In newspapers there are all sorts of shapes and sizes for ads... but... there are only a few "SAU's" which means "Standard Advertising Units" for which you can get extremely low price advertising space. They are either a full page ad, a vertical 1/2 page ad, a horizontal 1/2 page ad or, a more or less square-shaped 1/4 page ad. Observe:

 

 

 

 

 one
  full page
     ad

 

 

 

 

 

 

 	 

 

 

 

two
 vertical
 1/2 page
   ads

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

two
 horizontal
  1/2 page 
   ads

 

 

 

 

 

 	 
 	 

 

 

 

 four
  1/4 page
     ads

 

 

 

 

 

 

Of all these, everything else being equal, pound-for-pound, dollar-for-dollar, the most cost effective block of space you can buy is a 1/2 page vertical. It insures your headline appears above the fold and will nearly always pull something like what 70% of a full page ad will pull. Of course, if you have a full-page's worth of really good copy... use the full page! One-quarter page ads do work but, they will not pull 25% of what a good, full page ad will pull... nor... 50% of what a good 1/2 page will pull. Here is the 1/2 page version of a brand new ad I have just finished writing. It will be set as a vertical half page.

 

New book reveals...

How To Have "Killer" Sex
At Any Age... Even If
You Don't Deserve It!

  A small publishing company (Cherrywood Publishing) has finally decided to publish a book about how to have better sex. This book is so revealing... and... so provocative... it will literally take your breath away. Here are some of the amazing facts you will learn when you read this book:

*	The real reason why Prozac and Zoloft are so popular in this country! (Almost no one... not even doctors... understands the startling sexual implications.)
*	The single biggest sexual complaint women have about men!
*	The single biggest sexual complaint men have about women!
*	A dead "giveaway" which proves a woman is faking her orgasms!
*	A brand new discovery (just approved by the FDA on February 28, 2000) that any man can use to instantly (and safely) boost his testosterone level. Note: This will not only improve his sex life... but also... his overall health!
*	A secret almost nobody (except a few, elite very wealthy people) know about... which can lead to... a male having multiple orgasms!
*	A special place (and a special way) to touch a woman to guarantee mind-altering sex! (This technique is so simple... and... so little-known... even 75% of all women don't know about it.)
*	The two almost unknown secrets (one mental, one physical) men need to know to have rock-hard erections... at any age! (These are crucial secrets to improving a man's sex life forever.)
*	A scientifically-proven "aphrodisiac" which gently sends a woman's sexual desire into white-hot overdrive!
*	What lesbians know about oral sex that men don't... and why... more men are now losing their women to other women... than ever before!
*	The single-most important thing a woman can do to make herself more attractive to the opposite sex!
*	The single-most important thing a man can do to make himself more attractive to the opposite sex!
*	Three sure-fire ways to tell if your spouse or "significant other" has had sex with someone else in the last 24-hours!
*	How any man can make all of his erections last longer! (This is one of the most jealously guarded discoveries of sex researchers who have been given almost unlimited research funding by their wealthy, pleasure-seeking patrons.)
*	Almost foolproof contraception: It's over 99% effective, but so new, most people have never even heard about it!
*	A male "pleasure trigger" that was... accidentally... discovered by medical doctors which... curbs premature ejaculation... and... increases the frequency and quality of male orgasms!
*	The number one rule which absolutely... must be observed... for women to have a truly spectacular orgasm!
*	Etc.

 

 

[CLOSING COPY:]

 

   This book comes with an iron-clad, 90-day money-back guarantee and it is easy-to-order. All you have to do is write your name and address and the words "Killer Sex Book" on a piece of paper and send it with your check or  money  order  for  $27.00  plus  $4.50  for  postage  and  handling    (total $31.50) to:

Cherrywood Publishing

3101 S.W. 34th Ave. #905-467

Ocala, FL 34474

   That's all there is to it. As soon as we receive your payment, the book will be sent to you immediately via first-class mail.

NOTE: All books are shipped in a plain, confidential, unmarked package.


 

Well, there it is Buckwheat. What you've just read plus my last few issues constitute a formulized, almost foolproof way of creating a profitable piece of copy. It may not be the very best way. There's no genius involved or necessary. Note also there's no need for you to have a telephone or a credit card merchant account. This is a "meat-and-potatoes" way to get the job done over and over.

I hope you appreciate me teaching it to you.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
aka "Hurricane Halbert"


P.S.	Since my son Bond is running my stock market trading business, I have started writing copy for clients again. I haven't had a single miss. Last week Nutramerica ran one of my ads in the Asbury Park newspaper and paid over $13,000 for the ad... which... has now produced something in the vicinity of $94,000 in sales. If you need a "killer" copywriter who is working... at his absolute peak... and... you can afford me ($15,000 plus 5% of gross sales)... you're crazy if you don't call me right now at...

(305) 534-7577


P.S.#2	Hey, it can't hurt to talk.

Peace.



Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Use 976 Numbers To Get People To Pay To Hear Your Sales Pitch!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zhkj_976_numbers.htm

Email Us


From:

Los Angeles, California

Friday, 4:05 P.M.

June 5, 1987

Dear friend and subscriber,

 
Let's talk about sex.
 

A few years ago I was browsing in a Studio City bookstore when the devil made me pick up a girlie magazine called High Society. The devil then further directed my attention to the middle of the magazine whereupon he forced me to examine the centerfold of the month in minute detail.

Thank God for the devil.

Anyway, there she was, all spread out in her nude, nubile glory, beckoning me to feast my eyes on every square inch of her lush, wanton, young body. But that's not all she was beckoning me to do. No, Sir! She was also beckoning me to call her at a special number so I could hear her passionately profess how much she wanted my body.

And so I did.

And so did a few other people. In fact, if my info is correct, some of those centerfold ladies receive...

500,000 Calls Per Day!

Whooee! That's a lot of heavy breathing, ain't it? But, so what? What ramifications, if any, does this have to do with our marketing efforts?

Plenty. Just wait. Now listen, do you know how this business of 976 numbers works? It's sort of like this: What you do is you go to Ma Bell and tell her you want to have some 976 numbers. Then you arrange to buy or lease some phone answering equipment. All this will cost you a few thou. O.K., after you've got all this in place, what you do is you run ads or mail letters or somehow entice people to call your 976 number to hear a recorded message.

The numbers go something like this: First, the customer (he who does the dialing) must pay his normal phone charges. What this means is that if your 976 number is located in the 212 area code and he is calling from area code 213, then he must pay a long distance toll charge. However, if he is calling from the same area code, there is, of course, no long distance charge.

Furthermore, he must also pay a fee (usually about $2.00) for the privilege of listening to the info on the 976 recorded message.

And what happens to this $2.00 fee? Aha, I thought you'd never ask. Hear this: The fee is collected by Ma Bell (it is added to the caller's phone bill) and Ma keeps about $.50 of it and sends the rest (about $1.50) to you!

Getting interesting, isn't it?

Let us press on. Remember that centerfold girl who invited me to call her so she could tell me how hot she was for my bod? Do you know that what she told me after her recorded message got me all hot and bothered? Well, listen to this! What she told me at the end of her recording is that, if I wanted to talk to her live and, if I had a credit card, I could call another number and would have the hottest conversation of my life!

Oh yeah! Oh yeah! Oh yeah!

Hold on, all ye who would think ill of me. I'm not getting excited about all that heavy breathing; I'm getting excited about those numbers!

Let's see now, if some of those centerfold girls get 500,000 calls per day, that's uh, about 750,000.00 to he who owns the 976 numbers. And I wonder how many of those people with credit cards get excited enough to call and talk to a live girl? What do you think? 20%? 10%? 5%? Naw. That seems too high to me. Let's base our numbers on a 1% "conversion".

So, 1% of 500,000 is 5,000. Right? And what does it cost a credit card holder to listen to a real life girl talk dirty? Well, according to my informants, it's about $35.00 for 15 minutes. And how much is $35.00 times 5,000 callers? Check it out. It seems to me it's another

$175,000.00!

By now, I bet you want to know more about this 976 business, don't you? But you're probably just like me. In other words, even though you'd like to know how to apply all this to your own efforts, you don't want to call one of those "dial-a-porn" numbers by mistake, now do you? And so, as a public service, I, Sir Gary of Halbert, am hereby providing a list of numbers in the 213 area code you must avoid dialing at all cost. Therefore, no matter what, I implore you....

Do Not Call These Numbers!

Live Sex Talk 976-1133

Live Oral Excitement 976-6400

Gabrielle's Candy Store 976-5477

Hi Baby 976-5683

Sex Soap Opera 976/4277

Pick Your Pleasure (1-6) 976-8800

Live Domination/S&M 976-9447

Let Me Please You 976-0200

Love Line 976-9944

Adult Fantasy 976-8887

Or These Either!

Love Story Serial 976-6622

Adult Fantasies 976-5511

Love Story Serial #2 976-GLOW
 
Fantasies Come True 976-7399
 
A Beautiful Lady 976-7729
 
The Ultimate Male Fantasy976-8665
 
Adult Connection 976-1122
 
Leave Your Own Sex Ad 976-LUVV
 
Live Fantasy 976-5551
 
Adult Film Stars Live 976-9111

 

And Especially Not These!

Adult Bulletin Board 976-6600

Real Live Phone Sex 976-6644

The Beach Girls 976-0404

Self-Explanatory 976-SLUT

Talk with Young Actors 976-4323

Gay Talk Line 976-BARS

Live Phone Sex 976-DOIT

Talk with Young Hunks 976-7742

 

Remember.... You Have Been Warned!

Whew! I'm glad that's out of the way! Anyway, now that we know what not to do, how can we cash in on this 976 business for our own, more respectable business endeavors?

Hmn? How about this? How about if we are selling realestate in the L.A. area and we run a little ad in the Los Angeles Times that says...

How to Buy L.A. Real Estate

At Dirt-Cheap Prices!

Call (213) 976-0000 For

Amazing Recorded Message.

$2.00 Plus Toll, If Any.

Then, when the caller calls, we give him some accurate and valid tips on how to buy L.A. real estate and, at the end of the recording, we give him our regular office number to call if he wants more info.

Did you like that one? I thought you would. By the way, (213) 976-HOME is a number that is safe to call in the L.A. area. You'll get a recorded message that will give you up-to-date info on L.A. area properties that have recently gone into foreclosure.

What else? Let's see. How about this? How about if Sir Gary, the Ravin' Maven of Marketing, runs an ad in the business section of various publications that says something like this....

How To Promote Your Business

For Less Than $1,000.00!

Exciting Recorded Message

By World's Best Copywriter

Reveals Amazing Secret!

It's Only $2 + Toll, If Any.

Call (213) 9 7 6 - G A R Y.

Whad'ya think? Will that one fly? Maybe I could change the message every week and many folks would call week after week and some of them would become profitable clients and associates.

Hey! Come to think of it, maybe we could mail out the same copy on a postcard to lists of our best prospects!

Want more? I knew you did. Remember how I told you in an earlier letter that all of us are greedy, greedy, greedy?

Don't forget that. That concept can lead you down many profitable paths. Like this one. Suppose you are a car dealer and you run an ad like this:

R e d H o t C a r s

At Dirt-Cheap Prices!

Incredible Recorded

Message Reveals How To

Get Amazing Bargains.

Call (213) 976-C A R S.

$2 Plus Toll, If Any.

Or you're a cosmetic surgeon and you run one like this:

New Plastic Surgery Technique

Can Make You Look Years Younger!

Amazing Recorded Message Gives

E x c i t i n g D e t a i l s.

Only $2.00 Plus Toll, If Any.

Call 9 7 6 - F A C E.

Or you sell stocks and you run an ad like this:

How To Pick Low-Priced Stocks

That Are Likely To Double

In The N E X T 90 - Days !

Expert Reveals Amazing Secret.

Call (2 1 2) 9 7 6 - C A S H

For Amazing Details.

$2.00 Plus Toll, If Any.

Etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.

Whatever. The point of all this is that there is now a relatively new and exciting way to get people to actually pay to hear your sales pitch!

But, let me offer a word of caution: When you promise an inside secret, you must deliver. Don't ask them to call you at another number to get what they have already paid for. That's sleazy. And besides, it will turn people off. It will make them less receptive to dealing with you. Instead, if you are a real estate broker, give a really valuable tip on your recorded message. Maybe you could tell the caller where and how to get a daily list of new foreclosures. Tell him what to do, where to go, what to say, what forms he needs and whatever else would be helpful. Then, after you have delivered, you can tell him to call your personal number if he needs more info.

Listen: Advertising can work two ways. If you really are not a real estate or marketing expert, don't promote yourself. Hell, all you're going to do is spend thousands of dollars to let people in on the fact that you're an idiot. (There's a couple of marketing newsletters out there that I'm sure glad I don't have to sign my name to.)

But look, if you got some really good valid info you can deliver in a recorded message, you'll position yourself as a person who delivers and you'll whet their appetite for more of the same.

Onward. I started this month's issue on the subject of sex and, now that you've got me going, I think I'll rave on a little more. You know, I very seldom use sex in the advertising I create. I don't know why exactly, I just never have. But darn it, it sure seems to work. It sure seems to be the number one subject that occupies all of our "Enquiring Minds." Remember, in my issue on Haldeman-Julius' Little Blue Books how, back in the 1920s, the number one subject people wanted to read about was sex?

Well, it's the same today. Go to any big city magazine stand. Look at all those hundreds of magazines and you'll soon discover you can divide them into two, approximately equal categories:

SEX And Then.... Everything Else

And just look at this 976 number situation. I bet that 99.9% of all 976 calls are sex-related. You know, that's sort of a shame. Here's a great new way to generate leads and a positive cash flow at the exact same time and hardly anybody is using it except people selling titillation.

Another "sex story". Once upon a time, I was introduced to a guy who claimed he was the greatest living income tax expert in the world. I don't know if he was or not, but I do know he went bankrupt not too long after I met him. Anyway, this guy spent some really serious money in advertising in the Wall Street Journal and his ads usually developed the theme of:

How To Pay

Zero Taxes!

Well, his ads were, I understand, fairly successful. And then one day, he got a picture of a beautiful, bosomy blond from a local photographer and he used that picture in one of his ads. Her picture did not belong in that ad. There was no connection between a sexy blond and a study course on how to reduce taxes. But guess what?

That Ad Was

The Highest-Puller

He Ever Ran!

You figure it out. By the way, this guy was a PhD (I hear that means "piled higher and deeper") and he even announced that fact on his vanity license plate. And, being a PhD, he never ran that ad again because he didn't feel it was consistent with his "image."

Isn't that a hoot?

Enough rambling. Let's get back to this 976 business. You know, I believe this may be one of the hottest new marketing phenomenons to come down the pike in recent years. So far, it's mostly being used on the heavy breathing crowd but, in my opinion, that's going to change a bit. Today I was reading the classifieds in the L.A. Times and I saw an ad that said this:

9 7 6 - B I G M O N E Y M A K E R

Winning Programs That Attract Millions. Advertisements That Pull Thousands Of Dollars Daily.

Sure Success. 213/637-3781

I called the number and talked to a woman who said she was Martha Tucker. She said her company helps people get going in the 976 area and they are giving a seminar (admission price $10.00) at the L.A. Hilton near the airport on June 20th. She also said her company offers a set of three tapes that reveal everything you need to know to get in on the 976 bonanza. The tapes are $39.99 and they don't take credit cards and, if you send a check, they wait for it to clear before they ship. So, I'm mailing them $40.00 cash today and I've asked them to messenger the tapes to me ASAP. If the tapes contain valuable info, I'll let you know in a future letter. In the meantime, if you want more info in a hurry, you can contact them direct. Ask for Martha Tucker and you might mention that I suggested you call.

The name and address of the company is:

International Small Business Expo

Post Office Box 1006

Paramount, CA 90723

(213) 637-3781

Want more ideas? Lordy, you sure are a glutton for idea stimulators, aren't you? Well, lucky for you, my youngest son, Bond, has compiled a list of 976 numbers that are safe (relatively) for you to call that may give you some ideas. You'll find them listed where I normally write some inane P.S.




	   Sincerely,	


		


	   Gary C. Halbert	


	 "A man so dedicated to his subscribers he gave up his 'virgin ears' in their behalf.	




	P.S.	
California Treasure Hunt	976-CLUE
Lotto Line	976-LOTO
Music Trivia	976-TUNE
Want A Scream	976-4437
Dial Your Date	976-LIFE
Scorpio	976-1900
Cancer	976-1500
Taurus	976-1300
Capricorn	976-2600
Libra	976-1800
Sagittarius	976-2400
Joke Line	976-LAFF
Soap Opera Hotline	976-SOAP
Horseracing Hotline	976-RACE
Woody Woodpecker Tells Dinosaur Stories	976-2233


.	
	


	P.P.S
	And here's my usual inane P.S.:
On June 12 (my birthday), Paulette and I have decide to "skyout" for parts unknown. But don't panic. We're coming back. Just give us 10-days or so. 
[/DAP]

Click Here To View Our Newsletter Archive	Click Here If You Want  To Be On My Newsletter Announcement List

Copyright © 1987 Gary C. Halbert. All Rights Reserved

## How To Use Cheap Little Classified Ads To Make As Much As $10,000 Per Day!

Kilde: https://thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zjkk_cheap_little_classifieds.htm

From:
W-a-y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend & Subscriber,

Let's all make some money!

As I told you last month, this month I'm going to tell you about a "remote control" mass marketing technique that could easily double your income. I wasn't kidding. If you can't figure a way to make some big bucks from the info in this issue then, my friend, we may have to face the fact that, you are perhaps...

Beyond All Hope!

Aw, but that's not true, is it? Of course not! And, to tell the truth, I never suspected it for a moment. In fact, in my judgment, since we already know you are smart enough to subscribe to this letter, then obviously, all you need is a little nudge once in a while (don't we all?) and a simple, easy-to-follow road map.

O.K., here's the road map; the nudge'll come later. What I'm going to do first is make you aware of three important items of info and then I'm going to lash these three items together you can see how all this relates to an enormous profit potential.

So, to begin with, how many times have you read an ad or seen a direct response TV commercial that said, somewhere in the copy, "Sorry, no C.O.D.'s"? Lots of times, right? And no wonder. C.O.D. refusals are often very high (as much as 50%!) and sending stuff C.O.D. is truly a hassle. It requires time, paperwork and, it costs extra money.

All in all, a lousy idea, right?

Hold the phone. Let's think this C.O.D. business through one more time. From a slightly different angle. Let's say you're selling something that retails for around $60.00 for which your wholesale cost is around $30.00. Now, let's say you do accept C.O.D. orders and your refusal rate is a sky high 50% (which, incidentally, is very common). There's no doubt about it: With these numbers, you don't have a chance.

But wait! Let's say we're selling a different kind of product. Let's say we're selling a super product like the one I touted in the 12/5/87 issue of this letter. Remember what I said back then? Remember how I said, "sell something you love"? And also, how, if you didn't already have a product, you should use the guidelines in that issue to create a report that gives people valuable info for which they would be willing to pay handsomely? Reports like "how to ski anywhere in The u.s. at half price" or "how to lose 50 lbs in a new york second" or "how to stop writing ads for a living and make people pay you for scuba diving"?

Etc.?

Alright, let's say you are selling such a report. If so, it's probably going to cost you about 50 cents apiece to have them printed up, assuming you are doing any kind of volume at all. Now, if we sent this report C.O.D. via UPS (United Parcel Service), we're going to have to shell out another $4.11 in order to fill our orders. NOTE: This is figured on sending our reports to the Zip codes farthest from us.

So far, so good. Especially so, since we're going to charge $19.95 for our report.

PLUS $3.00 shipping and handling!

PLUS C.O.D. charges of $2.50!

For a grand total of $25.45.

Uh, let's see now, if it costs us 50 cents to print our report and, $4.11 to ship it C.O.D., that comes to $4.61 which, when divided into our customer's total cost of $25.45, gives us a markup of 619%!

Aha, now we're talking! Shall we take another look at the math on that 50% rejection rate? Let's. We ship 100 units at $4.61 apiece for a total outlay of $461.00. And, half of those folks send us a message which, if acronymed, would be "E S & D!"

In other words, they refuse the package and we end up getting it back.

But the other 50% who did accept the package, and who paid us $25.45 apiece for same, yield us a gross of $1,272.50.

Hmn? When we subtract our costs of $461.00 from our gross of $1,272.50, it seems to me we are knocking down a hefty $811.50 gross profit...

On Every 100
Orders We Ship!

And, we can feel good about it too! Why? The answer is simple: You see, when people buy info from us, they are not buying paper and ink... they are buying answers!

And, they really don't care whether you pay 50 cents to produce your reports or $50.00 or 5 cents. Nope. What they really care about is...

Do You Deliver?

Onward. Now, from the above figures, you can see we'll break even if only 18 or 19 of every 100 orders we ship are accepted. Think about it. Think about the astonishing fact that, (with these margins), as long as you collect at least 20% of the C.O.D.'s you send out, at least you won't lose money on that part of your operation.

And think about this: There are lots of other products like vitamins, diet pills, cosmetics and so on that have these kinds of margins!

And think about this: Offering to ship C.O.D. almost always dramatically increases your pull!

And think about this: Ol' Guru Gary knows how (in most cases) to vastly increase C.O.D. acceptances and he's going to tell you exactly how later in this letter!

But not now. Nope. Now it's time for me to move on to the second area of info upon which I wish to expound. Namely: Answering services with...

"Electronic Mailboxes"!

Actually, all we're talking about here is answering services with "super duper" answering machines. They work kind of like a monster version of your handy dandy home answering machine. Like this: What you do is you run an ad to sell your report or your diet pill or whatever... and... in the ad (which only teases your prospect) you invite said prospect to call the number assigned you by the answering service to hear a harmless "non-threatening" recording with more info about your goods and/or services.

And so he does. And he (your prospect) hears a long recorded announcement that tells him your report (or pill or whatever) is the best thing since sliced bread... and... to get it...

He Doesn't Have To Send Any Money Or Even Use His Credit Card Because You, In All Your Nobleness, Will Send Your Goods To Him C.O.D.!

Wowee! That sure removes all doubt as to whether you're really going to send the goods, doesn't it? Oh yeah! Oh yeah! A sales message like this (properly done) positively removes at least 90% of the anxiety people often feel when ordering by mail from a "stranger."

Want to hear how it's done? I knew you would. I've recently become aware of a guy who's running a little "work-at-home" classified ad (stay away from this area, it's FED BAIT!) and it has a phone number for the reader to call... and... when you call this number you get his recording selling you on buying his work-at-home "guide" plus his instructions to you on how you should leave your name and address so he can ship you his guide via C.O.D.

Go ahead and call and listen. The number is (xxx) xxx-xxxx.

Do It Now!

Gee, I'm pushy, ain't I? Forgive me, I mean no harm. It's just that all the rest of this letter will be clearer to you if you take a few minutes to hear a real "live" example of how all this is done.

Remember, do not emulate what the guy who made this recording is doing. As I said, he's working in a truly dangerous area. However, listening to his recording hopefully did get your mind working as to how we can use this concept in other "less volatile" areas of endeavor.

Plus, later on, I'm going to give you the number of another recording that was made by a man who is known far and wide as a veritable "Prince Of A Guy"!

But that's later. For now, let's get back to this "electronic mailbox" idea. Let's assume you've run your ad, or TV or radio spot (or billboard or whatever)... and... you've gotten people to call your recording... and... you've sold them on letting you ship them your goods C.O.D. So, what's next? Well, what's neat about the services that provide this "mailbox" service is you can, whenever you wish, call your mailbox and, by pushing a code on your touch-tone phone, "empty" your mailbox.

In other words, you call and get the names and addresses of all your new customers and then erase the tape and your mailbox sits there, all ready to be filled up again.

Listen: These things take multiple calls at the same time, they don't tie up your office lines, they're cheap, they fix it so you don't have to buy or lease exotic answering machines (at least until you've finished your testing and you're ready to "roll out" like crazy) and, if necessary, they provide a bit of a "shield" for those of you who don't want to waste time talking to dorko idiots.

Check around and see if there's one of these services in your area. If not, here's one in L.A. you might want to use:

Alert Communications
2437 Grand Avenue
Ventura, Ca 93003
(800) 664-3489

Tell 'em Gary sent ya.

Enough. Let's move on to the third area of interest. A question: In all of AdvertisingLand, what is the best advertising buy you can make, pound-for-pound, penny-for-penny, dollar-for-dollar? Answer: Why it's none other than those little, itty bitty...

Classified Ads!

Yes indeedy, it's true. And, before you scoff at the "small timeness" of this medium, consider this...

I Personally Know
 At Least Three Different
 Companies Who Gross
 Several Million Per Year
 Using Nothing But Classifieds!

Hah! That got your ol' greed glands working, didn't it? Well, hang in there, my sweet subscriber, 'cause you ain't heard nothing yet! Yea verily, it turns out one of my esteemed readers has done a remarkable thing. And, what has this man done, pray tell? Simply this...

He Has Put Together
 A Network Of 3,806
 Newspapers In 41 States With A Combined Circulation Of
 30,880,526 In Which
 You Can Place A 25
 Word Classified Ad
 For Less Than $1.55
 Per Paper!!!

Yahoo! Yahoo! Yahoo!

Let's milk this sucker! The man's name who put all this together is xxxxxx and his phone numbers are:

FAX (xxx) xxx-xxxx

FREE (xxx) xxx-xxxx

(xxx) xxx-xxxx

And, if that ain't enough, his TELEX number is 221 031 BRAD UK.

Now listen: If you want to place your classified ads through this man, you'll obviously have to pay him for the privilege. But hear this: He's found a way to "network" the placing of classified ads and he can do it on a dirt cheap basis and he can make a buck even though...

His Profit Is Only
 Slightly More Than
 The $.25 Postage
 It Would Cost You To
 Mail An Insertion
 Order To Each Of These Papers!

Here are some of the details on this highly unusual classified ad placement service:

1. This is the only national (or even State) program of brokerage on classified ads. No one else has ever done anything like this.

2. This is the most unknown service in existence. Some of my subscribers are the very largest users of classifieds in the world and neither they nor I had ever heard of this service.

3. For speed, this classified ad business even beats direct mail. Ads received in any given week are run the very next week. And, of course, since no one saves newspapers, you know if you have a "winner" almost instantly.

4. This is the best test market God ever invented. The reason is that all copy for each State each week must be uniform and you can make no changes of any kind. However, 41 States means 41 chances to test as many as 41 different headlines or copy appeals each week!

5. NOTE: Most of these papers will not allow you to ask for money in your classified ads and that means you must work a program similar to the one described earlier in this letter.

You know, this is an ideal way to rather "quietly" entrepreneur a mail order-type enterprise and develop a hefty private income for yourself. On the other hand, if you already own or operate a big business, there is still a way this classified area can be of benefit to you and your company. Let's say you are Jimmy Calano of Careertrack (largest seminar provider in the world) and you are wondering if your new idea of giving "Workplace Re-Entry" seminars to women who have recently finished raising their families is viable or not. Hmn? Could classifieds give you a clue? You bet! You see...

You Can Use Classifieds To Test Concepts!

I'll explain in a moment. But first, here is a list of the States in which this program is available along with the circulation of the papers in those States:

STATE	NO. OF PAPERS	CIRCULATION		STATE	NO. OF PAPERS	CIRCULATION
AL	103	1,100,000		NV	32	359,000
AZ  	55	575,131		NE	171	711,000
AR	78	773,733		NJ	70	1,500,000
CO	101	640,566		NY	184	1,051,000
CT + RI	43	320,250		NC	138	1,425,451
FL	64	1,006,400		ND	95	425,753
GA	104	1,500,000		NM	28	215,120
ID	41	256,193		OH	110	871,740
IL	227	2,198,100		OK	125	588,000
IN	80	930,000		OR	67	361,238
IA	238	1,300,000		SC	78	653,000
KS	82	326,999		SD	150	374,986
KY	75	1,200,000		TN	73	439,373
LA	79	518,707		UT	20	160,000
ME + NH + VT	23	167,700		VA	72	1,251,843
MA	41	502,900		WV	50	559,236
MN	273	2,200,000		WA	111	1,092,022
MS	62	415,000		WI	173	1,615,484
MO	147	917,563		WY	41	187,000
MT	63	190,038		 	 	 

O.K., now that you've perused the list, let's say you run the following classified in all those different papers:

Gee, you sure can say a lot in 25 words, can't you? But anyway, by running that ad in 3,806 papers and monitoring the calls received by your "mailbox", you'd not only get an idea of the viability of this project but also, you'd know...

In Which States It
 Is The Most Viable!

And so on. Listen: This guy Pursinger has collected a ton of info on how to make classifieds work and, if you become one of his national subscribers, he'll share this info with you.

By the way, I, myself, am one of this clients.

O.K., boys and girls, that's it for this month. I hope I've stimulated your thinking.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert

                                   

P.S     Hey do you want to call my electronic mailbox? If so, the number is
        (xxx) xxx-xxxx. Thank you.

P.P.S.  What's that?  You say I forgot to tell you how to increase your
        C.O.D. acceptances? Not so. Here's how you do it:

(1)  You capture the telephone number of each customer and you call
              to verify the order and tell him to watch for the package.

(2)  And/or before you send the package, you send a card or letter
              telling him to watch for it and how much money he needs to
              have ready and so forth and...

How He Is Getting
Something Extra That
He Didn't Order But
That Has Been Included
In His Package
At No Additional Cost!

 

 

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.

## How To Get Movie And TV Stars To Help You Sell Your Products And Services!

Kilde: https://www.thegaryhalbertletter.com/newsletters/zlkk_movie_and_tv_stars.htm

In this issue, Sir Gary of Halbert explains how celebrities boost the performance of ads and marketing campaigns, even if they appear to be an unlikely spokesperson.

Other than contact info (listed after the letter), this issue needs no updating and is as powerful today, as it was when this letter was written and...

If you think you can't afford to use recognizable stars in your marketing, you better read this issue to learn how to put the power of celebrity status to work for you at dirt cheap prices.

There is one interesting tid bit of information I would like to add.

In this issue our father talks about using Geoffrey Scott in an ad he wrote, and coincidentally, we just finished a video breaking down that super successful promotion (details at the end of this letter).

It might interest you to know that this particular ad was a huge winner which made the client so much money he bought a baseball team.

In fact, that ad broke a lot of sales records and made tens of millions of dollars so be sure to pay close attention to what the Prince of Print has to say in this particular issue of The Gary Halbert Letter.

Enjoy.

------------- Original Letter ------------

From:
W-a-y West of Jewfish Creek

Dear Friend and Subscriber,
 

 Some people who scuba dive are into photography. Others just like to cruise around underwater enjoying the scenery. Others like to explore wrecks. And so on. Not me. No. What I'm into is...

Wanton Slaughter!

       I'm telling you, there is nothing like going 60 feet down into an absolutely enchanting underwater world, staying there long enough so the inhabitants of that world come to accept you, conducting yourself in a non-threatening way... and then... when you get those underwater creatures to trust you enough to come up and timidly and curiously check you out...

You Kill Them!

       Oh God, how I love it! So anyway, earlier this summer, I was diving with Paulette at Sombrero Reef in the Florida Keys and, being possessed by the urge to slaughter, I was finning around while carrying a huge spear gun. And soon, I spotted a stupid little tropical fish and I dropped him just like I was Dirty Harry. And then, I spot a yellowtail. And "POW!" another one bites the dust.

       Now, the way it usually works is, I get to carry the spear gun and do all the killing and Paulette gets to carry the game bag into which we put the bloody-speared fish. However, since I've become supremely eager to share with Paulette the joy of slaughter, this time, after I get my two fish, we trade and she's got the spear gun and I've got the game bag with the two bloody-wounded fish. And there we are, happily swimming along when...

We Come Upon A Shark!

       And what does Paulette do, God bless her soul? She grabs my shoulder, points to the shark, gives me the spear gun and...

She Takes Back The Game Bag!

       Well, nothing happened. After a bit, the shark swims away and we continue our dive. And, when we get back to the boat, I give Paulette a lot of praise. I tell her she did just right. "Yessir baby, anytime we see any of those nasty old sharks, it is your duty to make sure it is you who is carrying the game bag with all those wounded, bloody fish."

       That's a true story. I swear.

       Now, I'll tell you something. No matter how long you've been diving, no matter how macho you think you are... A SHARK WILL ALWAYS GET YOUR ATTENTION. And last month, I told you your first job, if you want to to sell somebody something, is to get their attention. And I revealed to you how you could do this by writing what I call "killer" headlines. Remember?

       O.K., good. But, I'm not finished. This month I'm going to take it a bit further and expand on two more ideas that, just like that shark, will always get attention. These ideas are not appropriate for all situations, all the time... but... when they are appropriate, they can very dramatically increase the effectiveness of your marketing campaigns.

       So, what is it that will always get attention? The answer is...

Pictures Of Hot
Sexy Women!

       But be careful! If you don't do it right, putting sex appeal into your ads can backfire like crazy. Consider the plight of the "Playboy Channel" which has the highest percentage of "disconnects" of any cable hookup. Why? It's simple: The "Playboy Channel" is too risque for the Bible thumpers and not raunchy enough when compared with what today's smut viewers can get from X-rated films and videos.

       Such is life. Too bad for Playboy.

       Anyway, I want to impress upon you there is a fine line between using pictures of sexy women to attract attention and going too far and ending up offending those very people whose attention you have captured. And know this: Using pictures of sexy women will always offend some people, no matter how tame the pictures! Therefore, if you are the type of person (or else, you work for the type of organization) that won't ever risk deliberately offending anybody, then you should never use sexy pictures in your promotions.

       On the other hand, for the rest of my smut-minded readers (just kidding, just kidding), using such pictures (if you do it right) can help you rake in mucho fungolas.

       And, what's the first step to doing it right? Simple: It's using the right woman in your ads. You see, just because a woman is beautiful doesn't mean she will photograph beautiful. I had a "funny" experience once. There was a model I wanted to use in an astrology ad but I'd only seen her pictures, and I wanted to meet her in person. Well, the photographer said O.K., he'd set up the meeting but that I'd better be prepared for a shock.

       And wow, did I ever get one! You see, this woman who looked so great in pictures was truly just a "Plain Jane" (and I'm being kind) in person. It was weird. I was sitting at my desk looking at her pictures with one eye and looking at her in the flesh with the other and I could hardly believe it was the same lady. On the other hand, there are plenty of truly gorgeous women who look just awful when they are photographed. So therefore, don't fall in love with a pretty face until you see how pretty that face looks when photographed.

       And, speaking of pretty faces, what part of a woman's body attracts men most? Can you guess? I bet not. You see, studies show men are more attracted to a pretty face than any other part of a woman's anatomy! How about that?

       Onward. So anyway, Paulette and I often eat lunch at a little place down the street called "Cafe L.A." It's a neat place, right in the heart of ShowbizLand and therefore, it has plastered on its walls, hundreds of publicity photos of celebs, non-celebs and "would-be" celebs. And one day, as we are walking out rather indifferent to all these hundreds of photos (as usual) we walk by one that reaches out and virtually grabs your attention. You know, it's been said the late Marilyn Monroe had skin so photogenic it would seem to "talk to you" from her photos. Well, this photo we saw on the wall at "Cafe L.A." has that quality. Want some proof? Just take a look at the photo below and see for yourself.

       Are you convinced? I thought so. By the way, the woman in the picture is Raven Bleu and that picture appears on her record album called "Kiss The Boys." Whatever. So anyway, Paulette and I make it a point to get to know Raven... and... not only does she photograph like a dream, she also is a very nice lady.

       Here's the point: Her photograph really got your attention, didn't it? And likewise, using Raven's photo, or the photo of some other photogenic lady in your promotions, will also get the attention of your customers!

       But please, be careful. If you are selling Bibles to old ladies, or, if you are selling something to a bunch of phony, stuffed-shirt prudes, you may get some backlash you are not prepared to handle. It's a "judgment call" and only you can make it.

       So, where do you get pictures of foxy women like Raven to use in your ads? It's deceptively simple: Just look in the yellow pages under "Modeling Agencies" and you'll find all you need.

       But, make sure your call is a genuine business call! Do not call any model and tell her you've "fallen in love" with her picture and you want to see if the real thing is as good as the photo and you want to take her to dinner.

       I'm serious; that stuff won't fly and you'll look like an idiot.

       So now, here I am, a sitting duck to get bitch letters from my female readers telling me I'm a male chauvinist pig and I don't deserve to live. I can see it now! Here sits Ms. Elizabeth Adams out there in Baltimore about to write:

Dear Scumbag,
I always suspected you were a slimy pig and now I know it's true.

       Please Liz, don't do it. I don't deserve it because I'm really a nice scumbag.

       But anyway, just to keep Liz an Alicia Evans and all those other fine ladies out there happy, I guess I'd better reveal the other side of the coin. Which is, using attractive men in your promotions. Now, I must tell you, this is the kind of stuff (using men) that offends even me... but... my job is not to pass judgment. No, my job is to help you make a buck.

       So, hear this: Some time ago I did a piece of work for a client in Arizona and it did really well. And then, the client wanted to know if there was any way to punch it up even more. So I say to him, "Look, if you want to spend some extra dough, why don't you let me get you a celebrity to feature in your ad?" And he tells me to go for it and I get him Geoffrey Scott, who plays Krystle's (Linda Evans) ex-husband on "Dynasty." What happens next is we make Geoffrey Scott the star of the ad and we get a nice bump up of the gross (somewhere between 15% and 20%) which, in turn, means an even more dramatic bump up of the net since, once your fixed overhead is taken care of, a 1% increase in gross probably translates to a 3% increase in net profit. By the way, that's Geoff in the picture below.

       Paulette thinks this guy is good-looking but I can't see it, can you? O.K. now listen: There's a "mindset" you have to have if you are going to use a celebrity in a profitable way. For example, in my opinion, I doubt many people switch from Pepsi to Coke (or vice versa) because Michael Jackson or Mike Tyson endorse one or the other.

       On the other hand though, I do believe using someone with some "marquee value" can dramatically enhance a mail order/direct response type promotion because they tend to both glamorize and...

"Credential" The Promotion!

       I've said it before and I'll say it again: The #1 reason people do not buy from you is they are simply not interested in your offer. However, once you overcome that first hurdle, the #2 reason they don't buy from you is they are not completely convinced you are for real. And therefore, what a celebrity can do for you is, he can make you more credible.

       Which translates to lots more sales.

       You know, of course, the cosmetic ads I did for Tova Borgnine were hugely successful, don't you? Well, Ernie was featured prominently in those ads and, if you ask me, I don't think anybody bought those cosmetics because they wanted to look like Ernest Borgnine. But nevertheless, Ernie's celebrity did credential the ads; he did validate the ads; he made them more credible; he made them more believable.

       So, how much does it cost to get a celeb? Well, that varies and the first thing you've got to make sure of is you are dealing with a "sane celebrity." And trust me, they're sort of rare. You know, it takes a lot of people to make a hit movie or TV show. It takes writers, cameramen, electricians, directors, producers, lighting technicians and a whole host of others. However, there are many "insane" celebrities who believe the sun rises and sets on their silly asses and and they are the sole reason for a production's success.

       And, as Marlon Brando once said, "An actor is a guy who, if you ain't talking about him, he ain't listening."

       And, as Gary Halbert says, "Don't let any agent or celebrity B.S. you into believing you have to pay megabucks to get the credentialing you need. You don't."

       And besides, paying megabucks for all that celebrity firepower doesn't guarantee you anything. A case in point: Last year a major player in cable TV produced a show designed to sell water purifiers and they used Michael Landon and a bunch of other stars. I hear by the grapevine the show cost $250,000 and it flopped so bad it was like it never ran.

       And what's the tragedy? It's simply that they could have produced that show for less than 20% of what they paid and still used stars with enough "marquee value" to give them all the credentialing they needed.

       By the way, did you know fewer than 1% of all the actors and actresses in the entire world can support themselves solely via their chosen profession? It's true, most of them (even many well-known ones) have a second job or another source of income.

       What I'm saying is this: You can get a lot of "sane" celebrities for $10,000 or less, especially if you offer a "carrot" to sweeten the deal such as a nice bonus if the test campaign works or maybe a percentage of sales.

       Now, let's talk about how you go about approaching a celebrity. Well, the worst way I can think of is to telephone his or her agent. Agents are scum. As a general rule, I'd rank them somewhere just above lawyers and slightly below ax murderers. Agents, I believe, probably kill more deals for their clients than they make!

       You take a star who's starving, who hasn't worked in six years, who would be eager to make a fair buck being featured in a marketing campaign... and... if you call his agent...

He'll Quote You A Fee So Outlandish
You'll Think You Asked Him The
Price Of A Studio, Not Of A Star!

       And you'll say forget the whole thing... and...

The Star Will Never Know The
Conversation Took Place!

       But know this: If you submit an offer in writing, the agent is compelled by the "ethics" of his profession to pass that offer on to his client!

       Now the specifics: If you are interested in hiring a celebrity, the first think you should do is to get yourself a copy of the...

"Academy Players Directory"

       The price of this directory is $65.00 and it is updated every four months. It is published by, and you order it from:

Academy Of Motion Pictures Arts And Sciences
8949 Wilshire Boulevard
Beverly Hills, California 90211
Telephone (213) 278-8990

       This directory comes in four volumes and each of those volumes features 8 to 10 celebrities per page. The celebrities are categorized by LEADING WOMEN, INGÉNUES, LEADING MEN, YOUNGER LEADING MEN, CHARACTERS AND COMEDIENNES, CHILDREN GIRLS AND CHILDREN BOYS. All in all, the set I have (May, 1987) has about 15,840 actors and actresses. Now, before you get intimidated by the idea of contracting these people, consider this:

Fewer Than 200 Of The 15,000+ People In
The Academy Players Directory Earn Enough From
Acting To Pay The Rent!

       So there. Now, the directory has a picture of each actor and actress, it tells you the name and phone number of the talent agency that represents them, and, in many cases, the phone number of their "commercial" agency, plus the name and number of their personal manager plus...

The Number Of Their Answering Service
Where You Can Leave Messages For Them!

       Hoo! Haa! You're starting to get the picture, aren't you? Yea verily, what you do is you leaf through the directory till you find someone you'd like to work with and then you make a written offer rather like this:

Dear Celebrity-Type Person,

     I am writing to you in care of your agency because I would like to use you in an advertising campaign.

 My budget for the test campaign allows me to pay you an immediate $10,000 (Note: This will take about 30-minutes work on your part) and, if the test campaign is successful, I am prepared to pay you a royalty on sales which could amount to several hundred thousand dollars.
 

Also, I am working against a deadline and I need to hear from you within the next week. Therefore, because of the time pressure on me, I am sending a copy of this letter to your personal manager, your talent agency and I am leaving this message verbally with your answering service.
 

Sincerely,

John Jones
 

       Trust me, my friend, that message will get through.

       By the way, you should especially consider using some "star power" if you do a lot of business by direct mail since a letter from a star (with his picture on the letterhead) will give you a huge advantage over your competitors!

       One last thought: What if you want to use one of those rare (1 in 100,000,000) pictures of people who are so incredibly good looking they divert attention from your message? Well, in that case, don't put the picture on the letterhead. No, that would be unkind. Use the picture down by the signature so your reader won't see it and be dazzled by it until he's finished reading your message.

 	Sincerely,
 	
 	 Gary C. Halbert
"Kindness Personified"


P.S. By the way, if you'd like to see Geoffrey Scott,(a celebrity who can pay the rent and is "sane" anyway and a genuine nice guy), you don't have to go through any hassle at all; just call me!

P.P.S. Two other sources of celebrities for promotions are Ingels, Inc., 8111 Beverly Boulevard, Suite 308,Los Angeles, CA 90048 (213) 852-0300 and Don Camp(213) 281-6970.

P.P.S. When you use celebs like Raven and Geoff, you also get the "reflected glory" of all their credits because you can legitimately mention in your copy all the magazines (Playboy, Vogue, etc.) and the TV shows ("Dynasty", etc.)and movies and stuff they've been in. More credentialing!

The Players Directory is no longer associate with the Academy but the book is still being published in a print and e-book version.

The ebook is really an online directory you get access to for 6 months and sells for $50.

The physical book is $75.

Obviously the online version would be updated more often but the print version would still be useful after 6 months.

You can find it here:

https://www.playersdirectory.com/index.php

Interestingly, the first actor I recognized when looking at their old sample page was Ernest Borgnine for whom my father and I both had a lot of respect for. May he rest in peace.

Also, as I mentioned above, this letter was written around the time our father wrote a record breaking promotion in which he used Geoffrey Scott and...

Kevin and I just finished breaking down that ad to explain all the hidden psychology and unique tactics our father used in that particular ad.

If you would like to hear more about that masterpiece ad and know what was going on behind the scenes, you can listen to a free interview we did with two of the key people who, through some very unorthodox ways, made this super powerful ad campaign into the multi-million dollar blockbuster it became.

Just visit: http://halbertising.com/gary-halbert-ad-breakdown-berry-trim-10/

All the best,

Bond & Kevin

Click Here To View
Our Newsletter Archive

	

Click Here If You Want
To Be On My Newsletter
Announcement List

Copyright © 2003 Gary C. Halbert.  All Rights Reserved.
